The Ortholuge method reported here appears to significantly improve the specificity ( precision ) of high-throughput ortholog prediction for both bacterial and eukaryotic species .
In the Bioinformatics field , a great deal of interest has been given to Non-negative matrix factorization technique ( NMF ) , due to its capability of providing new insights and relevant information about the complex latent relationships in experimental data sets .
Enault and colleagues proposed an improved phylogenetic profile based on a normalized Blastp bit score [ 4 ] .
We designed a method for identifying transcript sequence pairs that are putatively orthologous between the two species considered .
We present a method that harnesses the statistical power provided by having several HDONAs available , which are obtained under similar conditions except for the experimental factor .
In a previous paper [ 37 ] , we introduced an alternative Bayesian framework for modelling hierarchical classes .
A widely used method in metabolomics is principal component analysis .
In the study by Blackshaw et al. [ 7 ] , the candidate photoreceptor-specific genes were selected by comparative analysis between SAGE libraries on the basis of four chosen criteria ( see Results Section ) .
Another approach , proposed by Joung et al. [ 14 ]		 , tries to combine multiple information sources to extract the MRMs .
These sequences were used to search for the nearly invariant nucleotides of the inverse core ( AAC ) and core ( GTT ) sites , separated by a distance typical of previously identified attC sites ( 50 to 150 bp ) ( Figure 2A ) .
A method here referred to as the smoother appeared in [ 9 ] .
Here , we propose a method that predicts nsSNPs based on the SVM [ 38 ] .
Two related papers [ 23 , 24 ] describe a method for local structural similarity detection , which is of great relevance since it is able to evaluate the statistical significance of each match .
We developed a gene cluster classification method that circumvents these limitations and links biological function with gene expression patterns derived from microarray experiments .
In most published SVR studies we have examined , these model parameters were determined one at a time , by first fixing all other parameters , then letting the parameter take a range of different values , and thus identifying the value that corresponds to the best model performance assessed by cross-validation [ 20 , 21 ] .
Cherkassky and Ma [ 22 ] advocated picking two of the three SVR model parameters ( e and C ) from training data based on characterizations of the data , such as noise level and sample number .
Another way to obtain suboptimal solutions from a HMM is to do HMM sampling [ 7 ] .
REDUCE requires only a single expression dataset and makes use of the entire genomic dataset ( both signal and background ) to assess the significance of individual motifs .
In this paper we introduce a Bootstrap procedure to test the null hypothesis that each gene has the same relevance between two conditions , where the relevance is represented by the Shapley value of a particular coalitional game defined on a microarray data-set .
The most widely accepted method employs the ' constant majority ' method , which assumes that the majority of reporters do not change in ratio .
In contrast to the cluster and enrichment analysis techniques mentioned above , the analysis is not restricted to single differentially expressed genes ; rather , all possible gene pairs are explored for phenotype-related dependencies and interactions .
To date , only one method for prediction of the residue depth based on the protein sequence was developed [ 30 ] .
Investigating whether different sidechain repacking could alter this discrepancy , a scheme for packing sidechains towards protein structure has been derived from a mean-field framework ( Figure 4 ) .
We have developed a novel method for selecting significant genes in comparative gene expression studies .
The second generation of SS prediction methods started by the method of Garnier , Osguthorpe and Robson ( GOR method ) [ 12 ] and improved in several steps [ 13 ] .
Since this work was completed , an extension to the OCTOPUS method which incorporates signal peptide prediction , SPOCTOPUS [ 22 ] , has been released .
A modified version of the MMM ( Mod2MMM hereafter ) , introduced in [ 6 ] , assumes that the denominator and the numerator of one of t-statistic-type score zi may not be independent .
We used the new descriptive CAT ( Correspondence At the Top ) plots originally proposed by Irizzarry [ 9 ] to evaluate the array-to-array precision within each microarray platform for the three replicates .
Such observation increases the reliability of those clusters .
Here we propose additional data selection using a GA for selecting additional learning data sets .
We compared the gene lists generated by the RFE method to the result of a meta-analysis approach as described by Rhodes et al. [ 8 ] .
If a paper is classified as not belonging to any of the nine categories , the paper is assigned to the category with the lowest probability of not belonging to it .
The nonlinear minimisation function of the R-package [ 33 ] uses a Newton-type algorithm [ 34 , 35 ] .
The nonlinear minimisation function of the R-package [ 14 ] uses a Newton-type algorithm [ 22 , 23 ] .
PPRM uses inter-sample ratios to quantify variability in expression .
The SW has been extensively used in DNA polymorphism studies for exploratory data analysis [ 22 ] .
When the evolution stops at a sufficiently low temperature , linked vertices in the same state are declared network communities .
We produced master alignments for each protein , so that subset alignments can be subsequently extracted through metadata queries , without further realignment .
Recently , Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification ( MLPA ) [ 9 ] has also been used to quantify copy number classes .
In an attempt to better understand the importance of sucrose mobilization in this pathway , a yeast invertase was expressed in an inducible manner in growing potato tubers [ 33 ] , and the metabolite changes were monitored by a metabolite profiling approach coupling mass spectrometry to gas chromatography [ 1 ] .
These three indexes were summarized in a sequence diversity plot ( SDP ) and were used to assist cDNA microarray probe selections for organisms without any genomic information .
Thus we can estimate the substitution matrix / conditional probabilities at any other arbitrary time , simply using equation ( 2 ) , and reconstruct the joint probabilities at any other arbitrary time .
We also evaluated the proposed method on all SAPs obtained from the Swiss-Prot , the method achieves 0.42 MCC with 73.2 % overall accuracy .
In parametric bootstrap the objective is to infer a characteristic ? from a sample ( x1 , x2 , ... , xn ) taken from a population with known distribution F .
A highly accurate method has been developed for predicting subcellular location of mycobacterial proteins .
HMM-B2TMR , is a profile-based HMM method , that was trained for the first time on a non-redundant set of 12 outer membrane proteins [ 17 ] and later ( current version ) on a larger dataset of 15 outer membrane proteins [ 55 ] .
Recently , a method for unique oligo discovery that was a modification of a central pattern partitioning principle was published [ 17 ] .
In a previous study , we identified motifs associated with life span extension in sch9? , ras2? , and tor1? using a cut-off based method [ 29 ] .
Finally , PROQRES is the only method in this set , which has been developed specifically to predict local errors in crude protein models .
In order to separate the effect of the method from the procedure to impute the missing values , we repeated the analysis both by filtering out all the genes with missing observations and by using the KNN method to impute them .
However , the rigorous tableau searching method is too slow for a full database search , and so Konagurthu et al. [ 18 ] introduce TableauSearch .
Lastly , the viability of using global Poisson p-values was assessed with the simulated spike-in data sets .
One proposed approach is to find the maximum likelihood estimate for the scale of the variance for each print-tip group [ 16 ] .
These two selected genes are then removed from the gene set and the procedure is repeated on the remaining set until a specified number of genes has been selected .
Genes were assigned a p-value in each study separately , and the results were combined to estimate a gene-specific p-value across all studies .
In summary , the control method is essentially a restriction to STEPS 1 and 2 of our identification method ( see Results section ) .
Another approach is to employ comparative sequence analysis .
We have proposed a new method to analyze the protein-protein interaction network grounded on the combination of a clustering algorithm of the vertices and a refined method allowing to assign a function to proteins of yet unknown function .
The relative binding energies for dimer formation were computed using the MM-PBSA module of AMBER 8.0 , employing molecular mechanics and a continuum solvent model [ 30 ] .
A suitable algorithm was previously utilized [ 9-11 ] but not described in detail .
Previously we developed a method to predict CRMs based on TF interactions [ 11 ] .
However , we felt that this would not bias the structure of the network significantly given that most authors tend to co-author most of their articles with a similar group of collaborators .
Presumably the three clusters converge downstream to some extent but at the hub level this indicates that these components offer highly specialized non redundant services to the cell cycle cluster likely due to the ancient nature of their function .
Compared to logistic regression , local regression models provide greater flexibility , as the regression curve can approximate any smooth function .
Chan et al. used a non-alignment based method ( FastCompare ) to identify conserved k-mers in worm and fly [ 24 , 31 ] .
An advantage of our proposed method relative to testing procedures based on genotypic data is that only p-value data are needed .
We have developed a drug target prediction method based solely on protein sequence information without the knowledge of family / domain annotation , or the protein 3D structure .
For a given feature A , the boundary Tmin , which minimizes the entropy function over all possible partition boundaries , is selected as a binary discretization boundary .
I will start by describing the steps to implement the method before explaining how to derive those steps .
However , calculation of alignments using these models always requires quadratic time , which is prohibitively slow for many large scale applications .
We have developed a Bayesian network approach to find regulatory rules enriched in a foreground sequences , for example the promoters of a set of co-regulated genes , compared with the background sequences .
Predikin identifies the key residues in the protein kinase catalytic domain , termed substrate-determining residues ( SDRs ) , which determine the sequence of the substrate heptapeptide .
Unlike many existing methods , our proposed method is simple and effective .
Another possibility is the clustering of t-invariants , as described in this paper , which generally results in overlapping subnetworks .
The area under this curve can be used as a measure of the accuracy of the test .
I described an algorithm which addresses the evolution of gaps as an extra residue in a ( N + 1 ) × ( N + 1 ) substitution matrix .
In this sense , local decodings of sequences are more informative .
We used the results of these studies to show that mutual information analysis is highly effective for identifying systematic differences between sets of sequences .
A recent study introduced an ANOVA , Analysis of Variance , model to select discriminative genes from several datasets derived from different experimental environments [ 15 ] .
The proposed assessment scheme can be used to complement existing pre-filter / assessment processes to ensure that only good quality spectra are sent for protein identification process , reducing false positive protein detection by database search and de novo sequencing protein identification tools .
We believe , that t2prhd is a helpful tool with which to study the pattern of repeat evolution .
The extension of the training set based on the co-author graph and synonym lists is one step closer to the " classical " context-based approaches - namely looking for gene names in the text of the abstracts .
We propose a method for an integrated study of survival time and gene expression .
Detailed analysis of the predicted drug targets with examples proves the effectiveness and predictive power of the model built .
Therefore we developed a method that relates variations in kinetic parameters to differences in protein structures .
The iterative clustering method offers considerable improvement over clustering in all genes .
We have developed a computational method to estimate the pre-miRNA content and to predict the location of precursor miRNAs in genomic sequences .
Non-published indices were excluded by default , but can be employed as additional / replacement criteria using thresholds based on results obtained in this paper ( Additional file 2 ) .
1 ) Support Vector Machine ( SVM ) technology is used to identify articles about biomolecular interactions and confirm sentences that mention specific protein-protein interactions .
Here , we demonstrate how the use of SQUAD helps to simulate the behavior of regulatory networks , modeled with the standardized qualitative dynamical systems methodology .
We also show that the LMS fit can be extended to multiple level superposition between two conformations with several rigid domains .
Stepanova et al [ 25 ] developed a method which can be used for the prediction of hormone-response elements ( HRE ) de novo .
Resolution of this system yields ?i , j , the expected frequency of dinucleotides under this Markov chain .
It was found that high percentage of identified interactions shares GO Biological Process annotations ( 39.5 % for a 102 interaction enriched gene set and 23.0 % for a larger 999 cyclically expressed gene set ) .
There are at least four different ways to calculate protein identity [ 20 ] , of which the mechanism used in this work was the one based on the length of the shortest sequence .
We describe a new method for identifying outliers when fitting data with nonlinear regression .
WBP is the most commonly used algorithm for reconstruction in ET .
The method is available in the limma software package which is implemented in the R software environment .
Using DF-SNPs , potential biomarkers could be quickly identified based on SNPs , SNP types or SNP patterns .
In addition to the collection of MIPS protein complexes , we have also used the same evaluation metric adopted in [ 8 ] , called geometric similarity index .
Therefore , to evaluate the performance of various methods , we used a different method pioneered by Nye and colleagues [ 2 , 25 , 38 ] .
Another alignment algorithm assumes no knowledge of peaks in common [ 20 , 21 ] .
The first and o	dest method , proposed by Lipman and Pearson [ 10 ] and described extensively by Comet et al. [ 11 ] and others [ 12-14 ] , uses Monte Carlo simulations to investigate the significance of a score , s calculated from the alignment of two real sequences a and b .
We propose a multiple clustering method to perform the clustering .
We propose an alternative baseline correction method based on a penalized smoothing model .
For their single-tree approach , Cummings and Myers provided the raw numbers of correctly and incorrectly classified edited and unedited positions , making it possible to calculate specificity and sensitivity in the same way as for PREP-Mt .
In order to use PlasmoHT one need to provide PlasmoDB ID , as all proteins in our dataset are not from PlasmoDB database so it could not be applied on all the proteins [ 20 ] .
We also proposed a submatrix imputation method to determine whether to use integrative imputation with a given collection of reference datasets .
We developed a method to detect sequence motifs corresponding to putative regulatory elements in gene promoters , starting from lists of approximate patterns with occurrences in promoter sequences .
In this paper , we present a computational improvement to a sequence clustering method that we introduced previously to analyze large microbial metagenomic datasets , and that was used in the GOS study [ 9 ] .
The single path relationship was applied to each possible pair of these paths ( path for GO1 and GO2 , respectively ) and is henceforth referred to as " path-pairs " .
Where the # comparisons is equal to the number of cancer samples multiplied by the number of normal samples .
We presented a method for finding relationships between the expression of a gene and that of a known pathway , that are changed across phenotypes .
The last refinement stage employs a variant of the tree dependent restricted partitioning [ 24 ] .
The results are essentially coherent with the biology .
Association rules discovery technique ( ARD ) is a data mining method that has been extensively used in many applications to discover associations among subsets of items from large transaction databases .
Automics implements a fuzzy wrapping method [ 28 ] .
More recently , other methods have become available , such as the " Assumption-free analysis " [ 36 ] .
We have shown that a multi-way method can be used to analyze differences in the amino acid composition within and between species .
SIM4 efficiently aligns a transcribed and spliced DNA sequence ( mRNA , EST ) with a genomic sequence containing the corresponding gene , allowing for introns in the genomic sequence and a relatively small number of sequencing errors .
The reference methods FASTA and BLAST give quite different results : FASTA is a good second and BLAST has scores similar to Paracel and Biofacet .
At present the most popular method of PCR efficiency assessment is based on the slope of standard curve .
Tsai et al. proposed a statistical method to identify cell cycle associated TFs in yeast , which used the Kolmogorov-Smirnov ( KS ) test to examine whether expressions of the target and non-target gene sets of a TF are significantly different [ 8 ] .
We present Searchpattool , a new method to search for and select the most specific ( conservative ) frequent patterns .
We propose a robust semiparametric method in a two-way semi-linear model ( TW-SLM ) for normalization of cDNA microarray data .
The final e-string obtained at the root is then applied to the sequence .
Besides two global methods ( maximization of the spectrum integral and minimization of the spectrum entropy ) implemented in Automics , we have introduced another easier to implement method for automatic phase correction .
The model parameters A and B in score function are determined by the noise variance of the spectrum , s2 , which can be automatically estimated by LOWESS regression .
They used the least squares method for estimating the normalization curves based on B-splines .
Sorting is based on the p-values calculated for the observed over-representation in order to show the best results at the top of the list .
By varying the search strategy according to a priori defined transition probabilities ( which are dependent on the search progress ) , this approach leads to an algorithm that sacrifices an exact relationship with the canonical ensemble for search efficiency .
The paper by Taewon Lee et al. [ 51 ] presents a method to test the significance of expression changes within a group of genes , while considering the correlation structure among genes in each group .
Quantile normalization was proposed by Bolstad et al. [ 3 ] for Affymetrix-style single-channel arrays and by Yang and Thorne [ 4 ] for two-color cDNA arrays .
The protein sequence Jukes-Cantor model assigns the same probability to each substitution and is hence a rather poor approximation .
In this paper , we propose a method for the normalization procedure based on a non-linear mixed-model , as well as a new approach for determining the statistical significance of altered probes based on linear mixed-model .
Lee and colleagues [ 3 ] improved on a previous work [ 21 ] by creating what we refer to in this paper as the Integrated Bayesian ( IB ) method .
One such Fst method is described in [ 2 , 5 ] ( but see also [ 6 ] and [ 7 ] ) and is implemented in the fdist program and can be used for any codominant genetic molecular markers including microsatellites , Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms ( SNPs ) and allozymes .
We therefore developed a hierarchical evaluation measure as described in the Methods section .
Here we propose a method , implemented in MXSCARNA , for fast multiple alignments of RNA sequences .
We presented here a new computational method for verification of PPIs that is based on the co-expression of orthologous protein-pairs , and demonstrated its predictive power using PPIs identified in S. cerevisiae .
ARD is a data mining technique oriented towards finding associations or correlation relationships among items in transaction datasets .
Internal calibration is a widely used method in mass spectrometry .
Article ids were sorted by this score in descending order .
Article ids were sorted by this score in descending order .
Here we present the design and implementation of a novel and robust online phenotype discovery method with broad applicability that can be used in diverse experimental contexts , especially high-throughput RNAi screens .
The maximality procedure makes use of Ri , with p remaining equal to the lowest index of Ri .
To meet the needs of clinical proteomics of comparing large sets of 2D gels , we have developed Sili2Dgel an automatic gel alignment method based on graph theory to find SAP ( without manual adjustment ) after a recursive alignment procedure .
In order to compute the distance between a matrix and a set of indices , our software uses the correlation method described by Tomii and Kanehisa [ 23 ] .
The method of Chaussabel and Sher [ 2 ] can be used to analyze gene lists in order to cluster the genes based on up-to-date literature associations .
The TGDR approach was originally proposed for the linear regression [ 7 ] .
The PhenoBlast Metric is used to rank genes based on the similarity of their phenotypic signatures to the profile of a query gene .
As an alternative to the existing noise detection and interpolation approaches , we developed a new baseline correction method based on a penalized parametric smoothing model .
Recently , a conservation score for ranking predicted motif instances has been proposed [ 19 ] .
We calculated accuracy by dividing the number of comparative base-pairs that were predicted exactly with Mfold by the total number of canonical base-pairs in the comparative model ( excluding any base-pairs with IUPAC symbols other than G , C , A or U , see Prediction Accuracy Calculations in Methods ) .
The class label for each test sample is determined by averaging all 10 of its SVM scores and it is based on this value that the sample is classified .
Alternately , the user can designate the occupancy and/or B-factor to search for particular residues or residue sets of interest .
An alternative way to apply non-linear normalisation is to use quantiles [ 28 ] .
These artificial repeats were compared to the RE nucleic acid sequences using ClustalW to find RS-like oligonucleotides .
A more general method , described in [ 11 ] , used scores based on atom pairs that contact across interfaces combined with iterative partitioning of the graph representing crystal contacts in order to predict complexes .
Due to the spread of residues being more on the diametrical plane of these helices , the axis found using the eigenvector method lay closer to the plane of the diameter instead of being normal to it .
To compare organism amino acid composition , we performed hierarchical clustering using the complete linkage method with distances computed using the Euclidean metric on a dataset that consisted of the mean percent amino acid composition from all predicted open-reading frames for each of the 100 organisms ( Figure 2 ) .
The TatP method is able to positively classify 91 % of 35 known Tat signal peptides and 84 % of the annotated cleavage sites of these Tat signal peptides were correctly predicted .
To produce an accurate multiple sequence alignment of a domain family for pinpointing insertion events , the structure-based multiple sequence alignment of each family was constructed with a similar method proposed by Casbon and Saqi in building S4 , a database of structure-based sequence alignments of SCOP superfamilies [ 15 ] .
In the complete-linkage algorithm , the distance between clusters is defined as the distance between the most distant pair of objects ( i.e. genes ) .
We are able to build a low bias and a low variance predictor using model-averaging method : classifier ensembles .
From this combined data set ( 23 samples ) we selected genes classified as Present ( see Methods ) at least once ( 5372 genes ) and then clustered the log-transformed data with average linkage analysis .
In another work , Bunescu et al restricted feature classes to those within dependency paths , but simply calculated the number of co-occurring features as the kernel score [ 39 ] .
Furthermore , our retention time prediction model is based on a new kernel function in conjunction with support vector regression [ 24 ] , which allows us to predict peptide retention times very accurately , requiring only a very small amount of training data .
We present a novel method for classification of hot and cold ORFs located in hotspots and coldspots respectively in Saccharomyces cerevisiae , using support vector machine ( SVM ) , which relies on codon composition differences .
[ 7 , 8 ] This algorithm , which is usually referred to as the Chou-Fasman method , tries to find structures based on the difference in the probability of observing each of the twenty residues in helices , sheets and other structures .
The DNA microarray [ 2 ] is another good application of nucleic acid hybridization technology .
Nevertheless , SAM has one much worse problem : its method for estimating FDR , which we will show does not produce meaningful results .
Population biologists have developed an analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) -style of analysis , which tests whether a collection of communities have similar genetic diversities using mitochondrial DNA sequences and other genetic markers .
Elements defined by our method can be approximated using vectors , and we have retained longer elements wherever possible .
The proposed method has the practical advantages , over existing approaches , to consider complex heterogeneities in the alternative hypothesis , to take into account prior information ( from an expert judgment or previous studies ) by allowing a semi-supervised mode , and to deal with truncated distributions such as those obtained in Monte-Carlo simulations .
Finally , all significant clusters in which the number of elements belonging to the class that is being considered is lower than 2 are also discarded .
We thus are considering all possible sequence alignments and weighing them appropriately ( see [ 23 ] ) , according to our indel model .
Alignment-based analysis of RIP involves the multiple alignment of a repeat family and counting RIP mutations along the alignment for all sequences .
We have recently developed an SVD-based phylogenetic method that provides accurate comparisons of a high fraction of sequences within whole genomes without the prior identification of orthologs or homologous sites [ 13 ] .
In the past we reported the development of a method to generate such models called the Stabilized Matrix Method ( SMM ) .
Other advantages include the ability to characterize relationships between genes and the changes in biological processes such as disease states , developmental stages and responses to drugs [ 10 , 11 ] .
The pull down DNA fragments are PCR-amplified and co-hybridized with a whole genome sample to generate a two-color image .
They used a Monte Carlo ( MC ) hill-climbing algorithm to search for the most probable alignments .
We used the Sammon projection method [ 27 ] as the embedding procedure .
Note that caution should be taking when evaluating the predictive performance of the ARB method .
Note that caution should also here be taking when evaluating the predictive performance of the ARB method .
In AL , the distance between two clusters is calculated by the average distance between the samples in one group and the samples in the other group .
The second algorithm used was PAM ( Predictive Analysis for Microarrays ) , a shrunken centroid method of classification [ 15 ] .
Whenever a stopping criterion for one of the reactions is reached , the integration is interrupted and the corresponding reaction event is instantiated .
Thus , we have developed a reliable heuristic method for determining dependency types automatically given the dependency structure .
For example , genes that cluster specifically with other genes from a more distantly related species , rather than with genes from a closely related species , are often inferred to have been horizontally transferred .
However , the successful application of the method is contingent on data quality control ; e.g. , amplification efficiencies .
Just as common function can be inferred between homologous proteins , ' homologous interaction ' can be used to infer interaction between homologues of interacting proteins .
In this study , we have developed a tandem machine learning approach for the identification of regulatory target genes based on these parameters and on the corresponding binding site information contents that measure the affinities of the factor for these cognate elements .
Here , we focus on spacer oligonucleotide typing ( spoligotyping ) , a technique that exploits polymorphism in the direct repeat ( DR ) region of M. tuberculosis [ 8 , 9 ] .
We decide to circumvent this problem by considering the set of all possible alignments - and their corresponding likelihood under our model - , as opposed to a fixed ' optimal ' alignment .
To remedy this problem , Zhang et al. [ 23 ] developed a novel coalescence-guided hierarchical Bayesian method wich uses a hierarchical structure to directly model the coalescence relationship among modern-day haplotypes .
The minimum covariance determinant ( MCD ) regression method [ 29 ] is a well performing robust regression method that can also handle cases where both X and y are multivariate .
Chen et al. predict mucin glycosylation sites using k-spaced pairwise patterns and support vector machines .
We introduce a novel multi-chip normalization method for Affymetrix-based aCGH data .
In future studies , the use of longer sequences that form higher-order structures will generate more specific peptide inhibitors from in silico panning .
For instance , the event whereby Alice repairs instrument 1000 is stored as ' instrument repair event number 1234 is done on instrument 1000 and is done by Alice ' .
Relationships between pathway summary expressions p and individual gene expressions g ( for which the gene is not already a known member of the pathway ) may then be compared between two phenotypes .
In this paper , we propose the AT excursion method , which is a score-based approach , to quantify local AT abundance in genomic sequences and use the identified high scoring segments for predicting replication origins .
Application of this method to two publicly-available cancer data sets yields suggestive and promising results .
We have illustrated a procedure for identifying interesting feature sets of genes to distinguish a tumor class from a set of normal tissues from large scale systematic gene expression data sets , obtained by DNA microarrays .
The spatial trend is estimated from these centered log-ratios .
As shown in Dumais et al [ 9 ] , this can be used to improve the recall of a synonym classifier although at the cost of its precision .
Rescue-ESE identified candidate exonic splicing enhancers in vertebrate exons based on their statistical features .
We use the detection algorithm based on simulated annealing , which aims at maximizing the modularity of a partition , and which finds the number of modules automatically [ 8 ] .
PromoterInspector program [ 9 ] was the first software tool used to identify the promoters in human chromosome 22 .
A useful method of integrated analysis of expression data within an interaction network is the ActivePaths algorithm [ 5 ] .
The entire core and complete kinomes were clustered using the probabilistic method described by Samanta and Liang [ 28 ] .
Our theoretical approach suggests a method for understanding the combined effect of changes in the expression of multiple genes on the activity of metabolic pathways , and consequently on the adaptation of cellular metabolism to heat shock .
TFBS prediction is usually attempted using position weight matrices ( PWMs ) [ 2-4 ] .
Excluding non-core ß-sheet residues from the ß-sheet fraction makes sense in view of the large variety of dihedral angles assigned as ß-sheet by the DSSP algorithm .
Since baseline substraction is straightforward , we mainly focus on the baseline estimation procedure in different methods .
Here we present a novel approach to generate quasi-median networks for a set of aligned DNA sequences .
Even information on the ( predicted ) class of the neighboring tokens does not improve our results .
BRNI is based on our method to infer biochemical models of single gene regulation [ 15 ] .
Our study provides an investigation of the functional organization of five coexpression networks using data from three mammalian organisms .
Here we have developed a new method of estimating the error rate of curated sequence annotations , and applied this to the Gene Ontology ( GO ) sequence database ( GOSeqLite ) .
Among these approaches , the Affymetrix GeneChip® Mapping Assay [ 18 , 19 ] is increasingly used for detecting CNVs in human DNA .
Unigenic evolution is a powerful genetic strategy involving random mutagenesis of a single gene product to delineate functionally important domains of a protein .
( 1 ) Random From Data ( RFD ) : k randomly selected genes ( vectors ) are used as the starting centroids .
Sequences are randomly selected on this basis .
We then estimate this integral using a method we developed called the Uniform Distance Method ( UDM ) .
Then , for all the ambiguous individuals ( with more than one heterozygous site ) , it picks up a compatible haplotype from that list and adds the complementary haplotype to continue the process .
We have therefore chosen to use a variant of PLSR called Bridge-PLSR [ 14 ] .
BIG-PI is the first publicly released method for GPI-anchor prediction , and the predictions are made by four kingdom-specific predictors [ 10 , 12 , 13 ] .
By this strategy , we were able to provide functional clues to proteins that do not show any significant sequence or global structural similarity with proteins in the current databases .
We have named this array " area map " , as it in fact maps the total area of each object to its centroid .
We apply this method to various networks such as the E. coli transcriptional regulatory network , the macaque cortex network , a foodweb network and the Buchnera aphidicola metabolic network .
Each network outputs a score in the range [ 0.000-1.000 ] , where scores below 0.5 indicate non-cleavage and scores above 0.5 indicate potential cleavage .
So while this approach is conceptually and numerically simple , it does not provide dimension reduction , does not take into account the continuity of the underlying trajectories , and is subject to measurement errors in the predictors .
While we used AceView for redefining probe sets , the method of regrouping probes can be applied using any public or " in-house " database , and the guidelines provided here for creating a viable " probe set " should be generally applicable .
In our method , the inversion could be detected by including the reverse complementary sequences in the sequence set .
The global lowess normalization is carried out first and takes dye biases into account .
Since this method does not need pre-defined target gene sets , it requires no threshold selection for binding affinity scores or gene expression changes .
The final estimated accuracy of this artificial annotation is the percentage of true LORF .
It is implemented using the R statistical language in the limma bioconductor package [ 40 ] .
We propose an online phenotype discovery method for high-throughput RNAi screen , which can be used in the course of many image-based screens .
In real-time PCR data analysis , the cycle threshold ( CT ) method is currently the gold standard .
We propose a new method that improves the accuracy of the predictions achieved by the phylogenetic approaches tested here ( see Methods ) or the five methods based on network analyses .
We have presented a method to estimate the score distributions of RNA helices or single strand profiles and of their combinations into larger motifs .
We have presented an algorithm to align multiple sequences and reconstruct the phylogenies that minimize the alignment score .
Recently Bockhorst et al. [ 26 ] proposed a very accurate method for predicting operons , promoters and terminators in E. coli .
The computationally reconstituted tissue profile S* was either not further normalized or normalized by local regression .
A further reduction in total within-group variance can be achieved by using the ratio method described in this report .
In this article we present a computational method for annotating gene expression pattern images .
If the results of automatic alignment are unsatisfactory , semiautomatic alignment is possible .
To discard tags that are likely to have been generated by sequencing errors , we implemented Colinge and Feger 's method [ 22 ] .
To address this , we utilized a method for expanding the set of terms associated with a given GO node .
We present a novel statistical approach that allows regulatory DNA to be distinguished from coding and non-coding non-regulatory regions according to its " fluffiness " values .
We first performed the comparison with the individual method used in ProFunc that most closely matches our own , PEAS .
A Gaussian Mixture Model ( GMM ) is employed to estimate the distribution of each existing phenotype , and then used as reference distribution in gap statistics .
java , is available from the STRAP website .
The final method for indel coding is also described by Simmons and Ochoterena [ 16 ] .
Besides the traditional analysis methods , the motif discovery algorithms can also be used to find possible TFBSs in the promoter regions of homologous gene sets .
As most of the existing domain-based methods consider only single-domain pairs and assume independence between domain-domain interactions , Xue-Wen et al. [ 18 ] introduced a domain-based random forest of decision trees to infer protein interactions .
We have introduced an improved method of searching for protein structures with similar folds using tableaux , incorporating constraints on the distances between SSEs to improve accuracy .
In effect , BEA was capable to detect relationships among proteins by relying on the presence or absence of third party proteins .
The principle of this method is to calculate the second derivative of the likelihood , and to select the number of classes for which this derivative exceeds a threshold , which is set to 0.5 in practice .
A simple estimate of the correct rates can be obtained by using the same learning dataset as the testing one .
Furthermore , we show that our design compares favorably , in terms of efficiency , to the previously described non-adaptive combinatorial pooling designs .
Among these four factors , the latter two are obtained from the primary sequence , while the former two are extracted from the secondary structures predicted using Proteus .
We implemented a stochastic coupling scheme to be able to couple the simulated enzyme to arbitrary , simulated or experimental , calcium time series .
The proposed method is used along with the Best-Fit Extension problem .
A fast structural comparison algorithm allows the rapid scanning of one or more protein structures with the library looking for local structural similarities .
The method does not require a linear assumption , and has the desirable property of scale-invariance with respect to TF-specific binding affinity .
Then the intersection is obtained by checking whether each working list element corresponds to a value of true in the boolean array .
In Table 1 we have also added an additional approach , denoted by l2 , the equivalent to the l1-regularization but using an l2-penalty instead of an l1-penalty on the coefficients of the log-linear model .
Some tools , such as DAVID [ 5 ] and FatiGO [ 6 ] examine the percentage of the gene list that is directly associated with a node of the knowledgebase .
Selecting proteins from the table will show the full protein sequence and highlight the repeated regions , allowing users to determine the full repeat motif .
Our method for modeling dependencies is simply an extension of position independencies methods .
In this paper , we analyse the capability of wavelet power spectrum in feature selection and we propose a method of feature selection based on Haar wavelet power spectrum .
Biophysically-motivated elementary free-energies can be learned using SVM techniques to construct an energy cost function whose predictive performance rivals state-of-the-art .
A common way to tackle this problem is to use database searches to find proteins similar to a newly discovered protein , thus inferring protein function .
Sequence signatures derived from characteristic variant patterns provide for a concise and understandable representation of individual sequences and evolving strains , while the timelines assembled from signatures of historical sequences are a helpful tool for understanding the emergence of specific characteristics .
Based on one of them , Mandell et al. [ 28 ] have found that the number of protein secondary structure segments is related to the coefficients cycles at certain scale calculated by continuous wavelet transform ( CWT ) .
The eQTL locations from these individual analyses for all genes are then superimposed to identify common regions that control the expression of a large number of genes , i.e. contain ' broad effect ' eQTLs .
Then , for every pair of seeds with distance = 1000 , XSTREAM initially invokes a filtration step , which jumps across M* a user-defined number of times t and looks for matching hashcodes .
Raftery [ 62 ] gave further empirical evidence for the accuracy of this approximation .
Finally , to account for the multiplicity of comparisons , the most significant curves are selected by controlling q-values using an FDR-like procedure [ 30 ] .
Among three strategies to combine multiple datasets - concatenate feature vectors , combine the kernels , or combine the discriminant values , we chose the strategy to combine the kernels , which Pavlidis et al. found to produce the best performance [ 10 ] .
If this probability is high ( and the model is good ) , one may infer that the sequences are likely to be homologs .
The most common form of robust regression is to iteratively weight points based on their distance from the curve .
In the first one , the selected subset starts empty and features are inserted by optimizing a criterion function until a stop condition is satisfied , which is often based on the subset size or a threshold .
The SBL algorithm [ 18 , 19 , 24 ] is a general Bayesian framework to obtain sparse solutions utilizing linear models .
So far , apart from exact algorithms evaluating the volume of the space of possible solutions , that are unsuitable for analyzing metabolic networks larger than some dozens metabolites [ 8 , 9 ] , the best technique allowing for such a characterization is based on Monte Carlo sampling ( MCS ) of the steady-state flux space [ 10-14 ] .
Here , the neural gas clustering method is used with Pearson correlation similarity measure for computing cluster centroids .
For example , Pathway Processor [ 7 ] puts several generated gene expression values at the same position on a corresponding KEGG static image when it visualizes pathways .
Shiraishi et al. [ 25 ] published a variable-order , variable-step Taylor-series method that can be used as an ODE solver providing a highly accurate calculation to compute dynamic sensitivities .
Elston et al. [ 4 ] developed an algorithm that is efficient on pedigrees that have little inbreeding .
Lander et al. [ 2 ] introduced a Hidden Markov Model ( HMM ) where the meiosis indicators are the unobserved variables .
For each interaction , a corresponding method is generated .
Second , the objective functions of clustering algorithms have been used to evaluate the algorithms .
Using a force-directed optimisation method , we were able to produce tree layouts in three-dimensions upon which the protein interactions could be projected .
The microarray design procedure described here could also be used for multi-species or cross-species microarray design in a scenario where the sequences with high similarity from different species cross hybridize to each other [ 32 ] , but not necessary be assembled into contigs .
Accurate interpretation of data obtained by unsupervised analysis of large scale expression profiling studies is currently frequently performed by visually combining sample-gene heatmaps and sample characteristics .
A good agreement was observed between computed E-values and simulations for a number of complete RNA motifs .
We describe here , in detail , a new analysis method that has been used to analyze the transcriptome in yeast [ 7 ] .
In such cases , using spatial trend correction after spatial segmentation helps to remove or reduce these two types of spatial effect , while preserving the true biological signal .
The preliminary results presented here suggest that , in general , useful information was obtained once approximately 10 % of edges were removed from Y2H datasets and a slightly higher proportion ( 25 % ) from affinity purification data .
We evaluate the performances of a footprint discovery approach based on the detection of over-represented spaced motifs .
A more elaborate method built on PCA is explored in this study to utilize the directional information contained in the eigenvector corresponding to ?1 , named here as the PCC analysis as described in Section Methods .
After the filtering step , the genes left for the analysis were 9593 , of which 1261 ( 13.2 % ) had between 1 and 4 missing values .
If the number of pre-classified points is large , it makes sense to use the majority vote of the nearest k neighbors .
A graphical technique based on the spread-versus-level plot may also be used to empirically estimate p [ 9 ] .
An important conclusion from the spike-in experiment is that the background normalisation recommended by Illumina is not appropriate for some DE analyses .
In summary , we examined the applicability of using Zipf 's law as the basis for a novel normalization technique , which is applicable to both one channel microarray data and two channel microarrays .
In this report , we used topological indices to catalogue and to classify RNA structures based on the correlations between conserved RNA secondary structures and topological indices .
In general , this method would also be suitable for experiments where multiple replicates of protein sample and LC / MS injection are available .
In order to offset the bias of the censored survival time , we employ a nonparametric method to impute the censored survival time .
pTARGET [ 22 ] predicts subcellular localization using amino acid composition in combination with location-specific PFAM domains [ 23 ] .
We start with phase classification , assigning each gene a phase based on maximal correlation to an ideal cosine curve .
The phase shift ( lag ) that produces the highest correlation coefficient is assumed to be the most likely phase of a particular profile .
We refer to this as the ratio method .
Simmons and Ochoterena have proposed a fourth method for coding indels [ 16 ] .
A recent novel approach for knowledge-based clustering [ 29 ] involves the use of selectively snipping the edges of a typical hierarchical clustering tree to induce clusters that are maximally consistent with available background information such as functional annotations .
The first method finds the best matching peptide from a sequence database using a scoring function based on the likelihood that an identified peptide is actually the peptide of the spectrum [ 1 , 2 ] .
The Sum-Height ( SH ) greedy method , denoted by SH , selects a character that will result in the largest increase in the sum-height .
Within BeadScan , the local background measures are subtracted from the bead foreground values to produce the intensities in the bead level text files .
The Ito dataset ( see below ) took > > 24 h when > 500 edges were removed .
These two issues are realistic in the cis-regulatory motif discovery process and are representative of current problems in cis-regulatory motif discovery .
The method to analyze all ConsWH or CombWH in any window sizes are called exhaustive window haplotype analysis .
The advantage of such an approach is that it allows the detection of conserved regulatory modules in highly divergent sequences , as we have demonstrated both with simulated sequences as well as with real world examples .
The best matching protein sequence returned by BLAST for each input protein was selected , and terms assigned to it by curators were then assigned as predicted term for the input protein .
In order to assess the importance of different methods for total weight calculation , we implemented a version of the SAM " bits saved " method in the HMMER code .
After this , we estimated the isotopic peak profile for a peptide of the same mass using the method of averagines [ 61 ] .
Average-linkage tries to avoid these effects by computing the average .
The edges were then marked as pixels of local maxima in filter response .
Perl [ 23 ] scripts query the database for BLAST hits along with gene indices to determine the number of sequence homolog pairs that occur in consecutive order .
In this article , we present a method that extracts biological named entities directly from full length articles .
Within the DNA sequences , gap characters are coded as missing data , and the gap region characters are then placed at the end of each sequence .
It is also possible to select patterns using thresholds on quality scores .
Each expert uses a subset of the data to predict protein interactions and expert predictions are combined such that the weight of each expert depends on the input data for the predicted protein pair .
Additionally , it makes an extra 4.2 % of correct classification decisions when only the highest scoring predictions were used to infer classification .
Picard et al. [ 3 ] used a piecewise constant regression model , where the parameters are estimated maximizing a penalized likelihood ( i.e. the likelihood with the addition of a penalty function ) .
A further approach has been taken using partial correlations that deconvolute contributions by additional parameters in order to reduce the list of correlations to basic dependencies [ 21 ] which may present a link from correlation to causality [ 22 , 23 ] .
Hallikas et al. [ 23 ] propose the EEL algorithm for finding alignments of significant motif occurrences instead of the sequences themselves .
Since we have proposed a new approximate inference algorithm , it is important to identify when this method works better than other approximate inference methods .
The " de-noising " is achieved using soft-thresholding or penalization , so that for each gene , class centroids are shrunken towards the overall centroid .
Examples are PDBsum [ 5 ] and the IMB Jena Image Library [ 6 ] .
A high lodsratio indicates a higher chance of true differential expression compared to a low lodsratio ( see also Methods : Parameter estimation ) .
Pellegrini et al. [ 3 ] firstly proposed a phylogenetic profile described as a string of bits , each bit representing the absence or presence of an homologous gene in a given genome .
In this study we propose a predictive method primarily based on sequence and phylogenic information with the aim to apply it to the entire human genome .
The innovative strategy of ping-pong search is a naïve path map retrieval tool for fly interactome based on the shortest paths between any two proteins collected in Fly-DPI .
For example , 40 % similarity on a stretch of 40 aa converts to 20 % similarity on an 80 aa window .
Let 's examine three representative Goose methods ( again , see the supplement for a fully documented simple goose ) .
2. The strips sampling ( sm ) is the most suitable sampling method for the effective reduction of the sequence set when more than 100 sequences are detected by BlastP searches .
Applied to gene name data it provided a useful analysis of name variation of related genes within and between species .
Instead of using the most probable sequence alignments the method utilizes the a posteriori probabilities for nucleotide alignments in order to establish the alignment constraints .
We therefore developed an automatic method for the spatial normalization of array-CGH data .
The SVM-RFE is a quite popular method of feature selection in an iterative manner .
The dictionary look-up performs exact matching between the terms in the lexicon and the terms in the literature .
In Hajibabaei et al. [ 7 ] , we pioneered a new visually-appealing technique for drawing organic-looking phylogenetic trees .
The individual-observation log odds ratios are themselves constructed from positionally defined Markov Models ( pMM 's ) , so what results is a pMM / SVM sensor method .
By simulation study , we confirmed that the proposed method can detect more reliable information from a combined data and it is more effective in small data sets derived from different experimental conditions .
The results show that one may obtain a global view of the tree of life by comparing the metabolic pathway structures using meta-level information rather than sequence information .
LA kernel [ 11 ] is one of the direct kernel functions .
Finally , we propose the use of a training scheme that , when the training set is enriched for nonbinders , consistently improves the overall classifier accuracy compared to cost-insensitive classifiers and , in particular , increases the sensitivity of the classifiers .
It also depends on the virtual tag database definition and this procedure may lead , in some cases , to tag-to-gene assignments that can be ambiguous , incorrect , or unavailable [ 25 ] .
The traditional method to select a set of marker genes is as follows : 1 ) rank the genes according to their significance in gene expression differences between diseased and normal samples using a statistical test ( e.g. t-test ) ; 2 ) use a classification method to evaluate the prediction error by using the top one gene , followed by the top two genes , the top three genes and so on until a pre-specified number of genes or a minimum prediction error is reached [ 1 , 2 ] .
On this dataset , Pomeroy et al. [ 20 ] applied OVA S2N statistics ( and the standard t-statistics ) to select a number of genes , and then built a weighted KNN ( k = 5 ) to predict class memberships .
As an initial statistical analysis , we used Affymetrix software to define genes that showed expression changes ( Increased , Decreased or Marginal ) in expression levels between pairs of profiles ( difference analyses ) .
An example of how a GenMAPP MAPP Set can be used to display large-scale data is the International Gene Trap Consortium web site [ 18 ] , where thousands of publicly available gene trap ES cell lines can be viewed in the context of biological pathways [ 19 ] .
Xi is set to the log-odds score vector ( over the 20 possible amino acids character ) derived from the multiple alignment column corresponding to position i in the window .
Breakpoints that divide the Gaussian distribution into regions of equal area are obtained through statistical tables which give the values of the cumulative distribution function ( CDF ) of the N ( 0 , 1 ) distribution .
Thus , for p = 100 % , exact repeats are detected , while lower values allow for the detection of approximate repeats .
The acceptor photobleaching fluorescence resonance energy transfer ( FRET ) method is widely used for monitoring molecular interactions in cells .
The pair for the common corner in the new quadruplet is designated as a bulge with respect to the common corner residue .
Described in this paper is a framework for identifying subsystems ( ' dynamical modules ' ) from a Boolean network model .
The details of the resulting algorithm are outlined in Section 4.1 .
To address this challenge , we created a new pathway resource , which incorporates additional genes into our existing set of pathways using prior evidence .
In order to remove any variability introduced through the use of different multiple comparisons corrections , the False Discovery Rate ( FDR ) controlling method of Benjamini and Yekutieli [ 21 ] was used to provide control of Type I errors when testing for changes in multiple gene sets .
As already mentioned , selection of a QSAR model that maximizes a K2-fold CV performance estimate is common in conventional chemometrics and is also applied in proteochemometrics .
Further dissection of these is the subject of ongoing studies and consequently to be confirmed experimentally .
Instead , we estimated the Maximum Posterior Decoding ( MPD ) alignment [ 12 , 47 ] that maximises the product of the posterior single-column probabilities .
Similarly to EDGE , we found very similar results both when filtering out genes with missing observations and when imputing them .
The present study proposes a new method for the prediction of catalytic sites in proteins based on their residue-residue contact networks .
We have developed a new Monte Carlo based method to predict the mapping between two interacting protein families .
A prediction method ProLoc-GO based on GOmining was implemented using the feature set of informative GO terms .
The lookahead scoring technique is also employed in the suffix tree based method of [ 13 ] .
Finally , a hybrid module was developed by combining SVM module and HMM profile and achieved a MCC of 0.87 with an accuracy of 94.61 % .
It is amenable to human intervention and modification such as hand-crafted rules , but can also be used in an unsupervised environment .
Boosting requires choosing the number of boosting iterations , but as shown in [ 32 ] , we can use cross-validation to select this parameter .
In literature of microarray processing , a = 0.01 is often used as the genome wide significant level , so the gene-specific significance level is : a* = a / ( 2n ) Recently a new modification of the MMM algorithm , Mod2MMM hereafter , was introduced [ 6 ] .
The effect of the prof criterion is to delay the matching of potentially troublesome peaks such as isobaric compounds , ultimately until they exist alone in a block , at which time , the desireability of using them for alignment is evaluated by a loess-based smoothing criterion .
To evaluate the method , seven peptides ( peptides # 1 , # 2 , # 3 , # 9 , # 10 , # 11 , and # 12 ) were predicted from the amino acid sequence of TPO and IA-2 by using the standard algorithm BEPITOPE [ 11 ] .
The system is implemented using the NCBI BLAST package [ 17 ] and PERL scripts .
Interacting motif pairs common to multiple folds of structural data of complexes were proven to be statistically significant .
We have developed a method to identify interacting TFs based on patterns of co-occurrence of pairs of DNA binding sites [ 3 ] .
The smallest numbers of train-test experiments allow the generation of the highest or most optimistic accuracy estimates .
The 95 % -5 % cross-validation method ( Figure 3 ) requires more than 5000 train-test runs to reduce the variance of these estimates .
The 95 % -5 % cross-validation method ( Figure 7 ) requires more than 5000 train-test runs to achieve the same .
We developed Nearest Neighbor Networks ( NNN ) , a graph-based algorithm to generate clusters of genes with similar expression profiles .
Jackknifing was particularly efficient to detect influential observations or outliers in our setting .
Our method , called BioPNG , encodes Affymetrix probe data as indicated in Figure 5 ( A ) .
The kernel machine method , with the support vector machine ( SVM ) as a most popular example , has emerged in the last decade as a powerful machine learning technique in high-dimensional settings [ 7 , 8 ] .
The method appears to be resilient against the presence of false positive interactions .
Progress is determined by an increasing value of ( sensitivity+specificity ) , hopefully nearly reaching 2 .
Progress is determined by an increasing value of ( sensitivity+specificity ) , hopefully nearly reaching 2 .
The numerical implementation is fast and stable on common personal computers .
In this paper , we developed a logistic kernel machine regression model for binary outcomes , where the covariate effects are modeled parametrically and the genetic pathway effect is modeled nonparametrically using the kernel machine method .
We introduce discrete convolutions as an accurate and fast mean to estimate score distributions of lod-score profiles .
The two distance measures are converted to zscores based on the permutation method described in [ 43 ] .
The results strongly suggest that the highest scoring genes are enriched for those that might contribute to disease , if mutated .
3. Normalized : For each motif , the measurement M is normalized by subtracting the mean and dividing by the standard deviation over all the programs on that motif , and the average of these normalized scores over all motifs are obtained .
Recently Ishwaran and Rao [ 12 ] , building upon work in [ 10 ] , introduced a method for detecting differentially expressing genes between multiple groups termed Bayesian ANOVA for microarrays ( BAM ) .
In addition to the above mentioned two methods , an intelligent adaptive binning method was also implemented in Automics [ 29 ] .
We conclude that the new approach is effective and useful in assessing the quality of tandem mass spectrum by analysing the self-convolution result of the spectra .
One such method , GeneRank [ 19 ] , uses the same principles as Google 's PageRank algorithm [ 20 ] to rank differentially expressed genes based on gene expression data and prior biological knowledge .
They identified sites which were highly conserved ( lower entropy ) in the brain but not in blood , suggesting that the virus had forgone mutations to adapt to brain tissues .
The ability of microarrays to identify gene expression signatures , specific subsets of genes that respond to particular stimuli , make them valuable tools for characterizing organisms ' response to environmental conditions and host-parasite interactions .
We have used a new integrative approach that allows to incorporate AS detection into ab initio gene prediction .
Our approach sets a threshold for the fraction of arrays called Present in at least one treatment group .
Most analyses in this paper used the background adjusted ( see above ) , log2 transformed data from replicate beads on a given array and summarised these values using Illumina 's default method .
MCODE parameters were relaxed to haircut = TRUE , fluff = FALSE , VWP = 0.2 although they could be further relaxed for greater extension out into the network .
In this article we present a computational method for automated annotation of Drosophila gene expression pattern images .
We use the approximate normal modes calculation method developed by Hinsen [ 10 ] and implemented in the MMTK package [ 27 ] .
We use the approximate normal modes calculation method developed by Hinsen [ 26 ] and implemented in the MMTK package [ 21 ] .
The CCV method , although not requiring a process of defining orthologs , considers every possible string of length up to k for whole genome sequences .
4. Lassmann and Sonnhammer [ 20 ] proposed a measure to assess alignment quality by comparing several multiple sequence alignments , assuming that regions identically aligned by multiple tools are more reliable than regions differently aligned .
In addition , a confidence interval for the tilt angle is computed from the confidence interval for the slope of the average feature displacement equation .
Background correction can be performed via the normexp-method .
The model-fitting procedure derived from the results of the simulation study ( Sections 2.3.3-2.3.6 ) provides a fast and reliable approach to parameter estimation .
The method of Gutteridge et al. [ 51 ] is based on sequence conservation and structural features and predicts active sites with a high success rate .
A related method that performs pairwise network alignment between species is the PathBLAST method [ 34-36 ] , which offers a general solution to the problem of PIN comparison .
The next worst performing method on the measurement level was kNN .
Here , we present a novel approach based on support vector machines to predict the binding of peptides to MHC class I molecules , SVMHC .
Here , we present a novel approach , SVMHC , based on support vector machines to predict the binding of peptides to MHC class I molecules .
The PCA-maSigFun analysis of these data revealed , as expected , the more detailed picture of the functional aspects of auxin treatment .
For comparison , we applied the Wesfall and Young step-down multiple testing procedure with a univariate counterpart of as the test statistic .
We define a new procedure that estimates the number of segments adaptively to the data .
The combination of classifiers uses the list returned by the vector space module as a reference list ( RL ) and the list returned by the regular expression module is used as boosting list ( BL ) .
Spectral referencing , which sets the inner reference peak ( DSS / TSP ) of each spectrum to 0 ppm , can be regarded as a simple global method for peak alignment .
It was experimentally shown that the gain in execution time can be outstanding without compromising the accuracy .
The calculations have been repeated for all the 1708 proteins and computed the overall accuracy .
An SVM-based approach has been proposed [ 25 ] that parses the mfe structure in " triplets " : structural information about the pairing states of every three nucleotides , represented using dot-bracket notation .
More recently , Rajapakse et al. [ 17 ] proposed a complex splice site detection method by combining mostly second order Markov models with backpropagation neural networks ( BPNN ) .
DomCut [ 16 ] predicts linker regions based on sequence alone , relies solely on amino acid propensity .
Having obtained the dissimilarity indexes , Ward 's clustering , a hierarchically agglomerative clustering method , is used to decompose the network [ 38 ] .
To select a few features out of hundreds , we apply a simple greedy selection method as follows : a forward stepwise selection as described in [ 37 ] ( section 3.4 ) was applied twenty times to the aa and seq feature set of dataset A ( mic ) .
In the last few years flux-balance analysis ( FBA ) has been the most successful and widely used technique for studying metabolism at system level .
The tau-leaping algorithms are all based on the modified tau-leaping procedure proposed by Cao et al. [ 9 ] which avoids the problem of negative populations observed for the original tau-leaping procedure .
We present a novel method for the analysis of microarray data that identifies joint differential expression in gene-pathway pairs .
Statistical total correlation spectroscopy ( STOCSY ) analysis method has also been implemented in Automics .
The toolbox currently implements a simple alignment method utilizing the master peak list .
The gene expression levels are typically estimated by the Tukey 's biweight method .
The HSM method [ 2 ] iteratively divides the data set into samples of half the size as the original set and uses the half-sample with the minimum range , where range is defined as the difference between the maximum and the minimum value of the sample .
To test for the effect of race on gene expression , gene-by-gene analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) with three groups was used .
Here we propose an extension of our polynomial-based method to cluster short expression profiles measured in different conditions .
The first method calculates the principal moment of the helix residues and used the eigenvector corresponding to the largest eigenvalue as the helix axis .
The plot ( Figure 2a ) demonstrates that the global size change is minimal after image 20 and the subtler differences in shape are not picked up by this method .
If X has the same base at that position as Z , the assumption is that the change most likely occurred between Y and its common ancestor with X .
The Fisher kernel [ 11 ] was the first method that used support vector machines .
To analyze a combined data set of two different data sets , the transformation of gene expression was introduced [ 5 ] .
To interpret such gene expression changes , gene set enrichment analysis [ 18 ] has been proposed .
We propose a quadratic regression method for identification of differentially expressed genes and classification of genes based on their temporal expression profiles for non-cyclic short time-course microarray data .
In this gene retrieval method , a query gene vector is one of column vectors of A .
Gap statistics [ 12 ] are used to estimate number of clusters from the experiment dataset P1 ? P2 .
The above dataset was used for training and testing tasks in both the leave-one-out cross-validation and five-fold cross-validation procedure ( see below ) .
DWT can be conducted by means of the MRA [ 27 ] .
A well-established method is a phage display [ 13 , 14 ] .
The first true evolutionary model of indel evolution was introduced by Thorne , Kishino , and Felsenstein [ 8 ] , the TKF91 model , and allows single-residue indel events .
TMBETA-NET is a Neural Network based predictor using as input single sequence information [ 16 ] .
In this scoring schema , dependency between some positions in a given TFBS is assumed .
Here we present ARACNE , a novel algorithm , using microarray expression profiles , specifically designed to scale up to the complexity of regulatory networks in mammalian cells , yet general enough to address a wider range of network deconvolution problems .
Such missing values often complicate further statistical analyses , and for this reason we developed a secondary peak picking method for filling these gaps .
An expectation-maximization ( EM ) approach is used to iteratively improve the imputed MVs and expression covariance matrix until total change in the matrix falls below a prescribed threshold ( here taken to be 0.01 ) [ 1 ] .
In recent work [ 24 ] we proposed an automated method to perform alphabet reduction .
In the present study a new method for the detection of protein active sites is introduced .
Elhammer et al. [ 20 ] use information derived from the frequency of amino acids in the neighborhood of a glycosylation site to identify putative glycosylation sites .
We introduced an extension to CAGED that overcomes this limitation and is more suitable to cluster short gene expression profiles in [ 19 ] .
Thus solid ( and liquid ) material can be easily analyzed by TOF MS .
Qi is the actual amino acid frequency of amino acid i in the column after adding in pseudocounts .
Earlier work that used HMM with discriminative training modified model emission probabilities by iteratively aligning negative sequences to the model [ 15 ] .
Another method , which we refer to as the ' Lake ' method , uses Markov triple analysis ( MTA ) as a different approach to finding the P^U matrices for rooted triples of sequences [ 13 ] .
We start by describing a method for the accurate estimation of statistical significance of single binding sites .
Other attempts at the problem use local search methods on complete conformations , including the GTabu algorithm [ 7 ] .
Identification of overrepresented DNA binding sites in genes of the same cluster is performed by the SCOPE method [ 12 ] .
In 1976 , Arnold [ 14 ] introduced a technique based on 1H Nuclear Magnetic Resonance ( NMR ) spectroscopy .
For the ' Closest Sense ' method ( CS ) , input was the UMLS semantic network and the article abstracts .
According to this algorithm , clusters are built from the bottom up , first by merging individual items into clusters , and then by merging clusters into superclusters , until the final merge brings all items into a single cluster .
We also propose a modification of an existing method where the statistical framework determines whether a set of proteins shows an association with the predefined phenotypes of interest .
Here we demonstrate the effectiveness of a Markov model , named the Linear Dynamical System , to simulate the dynamics of a transcript or metabolite time series , and propose a probabilistic index that enables detection of time-sensitive changes .
We have adopted a very common method that selects k to maximize the average silhouette ( described below ) .
Data and results can be exported to other formats including PSI-MI , Excel and DTA ( Sequest files ) for additional analysis using other tools .
Chou et al. [ 9 ] proposed the component-coupling algorithm that took into account the coupling effect among different amino acid components .
Therefore , this method is well suited for generating sequences that can be recognized by both HMMER and Match , without giving an unfair disadvantage to any of the two methods .
Here , an HMM with EVA is used to reduce the gaussian noise bands around a given level while still strictly retaining transitions between levels .
Teodorescu et al. [ 18 ] proposed a linear combination of threading and sequence-alignment to produce a single ( mixed ) scoring table .
Hedman et al. [ 16 ] included information about predicted transmembrane segments into the standard Smith-Waterman and profile-search algorithms for membrane proteins by adding an extra delta ( score ) when two residues that are both predicted to belong to transmembrane segments are aligned .
They developed a matrix decomposition method called network component analysis ( NCA ) to determine transcription regulator activity .
The residue variables were also projected onto the same space , so that group specific residues could be identified .
A comparative study published some years ago [ 11 , 17 ] indicated that the most accurate predictive method at that time is based on the prediction of turns .
Briefly , four comparisons were done ( DMD 1a versus control 1a ; DMD1b versus control 1a ; DMD 1a versus control 1b ; DMD1b versus control 1b ) , and only those genes retained which showed > 2-fold change in all four comparisons .
A faster model-fitting procedure can be devised by replacing the first phase of the Baum-Welch algorithm with a maximisation step .
The third method ( RANK ) calculates a relevance score as described below .
To compare different partitions of the genes , we compute the posterior probability of different clustering models so that , given the observed gene expression profiles , the best clustering model is the one with maximum posterior probability .
The area under the ROC curve provides an estimate of the probability that a gene is regulated between the two groups [ 37 ] .
Szabo et al [ 20 ] discuss conditions under which this method is a valid one for testing two-sample hypotheses with microarray data .
In particular , our analysis revealed the emergence of links between a core set of pathways in the cMyc dataset which may play an important role for the comprehension of the early phenotypical changes following cMyc activation .
 We chose the gene with the maximal cosine similarity between the test article and the centroid of the training samples belonging to a given gene ( gene profile ) .
In [ 28 ] it is suggested to estimate any empirical distribution by dividing the real axis into intervals and regarding the number of hits in each interval as the result of an inhomogeneous Poisson process , much like counting the number of cars arriving at a crossing during different time intervals .
Ginter [ 27 ] introduced a new family of classifiers , which were based on an ordering and weighing of the feature vectors obtained from word counts and word co-occurrence in the text .
RDAM is a method for identifying genes with changing expression levels using the user-determined FDR and/or S selection parameters .
We thus developed a new profile that replaces the prediction irrelevant features by hydrophobic information represented in SARAH1 scale .
A recent publication described a supervised classification method for microarray data : Between Group Analysis ( BGA ) .
The famous Lempel-Ziv algorithm can efficiently extract the information on repeated patterns encoded in RNA secondary structures and makes our method an alternative to analyze the similarity of RNA secondary structures .
Our method of gene selection will not return sets of genes that are highly correlated , because they are redundant .
By the method we proposed , we could determine the robust stability under intrinsic fluctuations and identify the genes that are significantly affected by extrinsic noises , which we call the weak structure of the network .
The weights were normalized so the profile-profile score had a weight of one .
In a search for putative WSSV regulatory promoter elements , we compared the abundance of all 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 or 8 nucleotide motifs in the 100 and 200 nt upstream sequences of all WSSV genes relative to their presence in the complete WSSV genomic sequence .
We have shown that probes which target overlapping transcript sequence regions on cDNA microarrays and Affymetrix gene-chips exhibit a greater level of concordance than the corresponding Unigene or sequence matched features .
We have presented a method to test the significance of expression changes within a group of genes , while considering the correlation structure among genes in each group .
Then in each iteration , each random tree will be refined with the newly labeled examples by its concomitant ensemble , where the confidence of the labeled example exceeds a certain threshold ? .
A conservative adjustment method ( Bonferroni 's adjustment ) is to divide the experiment-wise Type I error level ( a ) by the number of hypotheses tested ( N = 22,283 ) and use that as the cut-off for significant p-values .
In this study , we proposed a scoring method ( Eq. 1 ) that combined the predicted variance information to compare two spectra under total ion current normalization .
( 3 ) Bisecting K Means ( BKM ) : The initial centroids are calculated using a variation of the Bisecting K Means algorithm [ 10 ] .
For example , UniqueProt [ 8 ] is a fast and simple method that reduces the redundancy of the dataset by removing over-represented sequences , based on a user-defined percent identity threshold .
The most frequent haplotypes pairs can then be assigned for each genotype in the sample .
In the analysis , a continuous portion of an antigen is sequentially substituted into a different sequence .
The epitope region is narrowed down by repeating the process .
In the first stage , the SVM-RFE technique was most efficient and robust in the presence of low number of samples and high input space dimension .
To avoid training data sparseness and to structure the hypothesis space based on the entire protein distribution , we have proposed a prediction method that uses Joachims ' spectral graph transducer and is trained on both structure-known sequences and structure-unknown sequences .
The coverage can also be estimated in nucleotide numbers .
