The Ortholuge method reported here appears to significantly improve the specificity precision of high throughput ortholog prediction for both bacterial and eukaryotic species .
In the Bioinformatics field a great deal of interest has been given to Non negative matrix factorization technique NMF due to its capability of providing new insights and relevant information about the complex latent relationships in experimental data sets .
We designed a method for identifying transcript sequence pairs that are putatively orthologous between the two species considered .
We present a method that harnesses the statistical power provided by having several HDONAs available which are obtained under similar conditions except for the experimental factor .
A widely used method in metabolomics is principal component analysis .
In the study by Blackshaw et althe candidate photoreceptor specific genes were selected by comparative analysis between SAGE libraries on the basis of four chosen criteria see Results Section .
Another approach proposed by Joung et al]	tries to combine multiple information sources to extract the MRMs .
A method here referred to as the smoother appeared in .
Here we propose a method that predicts nsSNPs based on the SVM .
Two related papers describe a method for local structural similarity detection which is of great relevance since it is able to evaluate the statistical significance of each match .
We developed a gene cluster classification method that circumvents these limitations and links biological function with gene expression patterns derived from microarray experiments .
The most widely accepted method employs the constant majority method which assumes that the majority of reporters do not change in ratio .
In contrast to the cluster and enrichment analysis techniques mentioned above the analysis is not restricted to single differentially expressed genes rather all possible gene pairs are explored for phenotype related dependencies and interactions .
To date only one method for prediction of the residue depth based on the protein sequence was developed .
We have developed a novel method for selecting significant genes in comparative gene expression studies .
The second generation of SS prediction methods started by the method of Garnier Osguthorpe and Robson GOR method and improved in several steps .
Since this work was completed an extension to the OCTOPUS method which incorporates signal peptide prediction SPOCTOPUS has been released .
We compared the gene lists generated by the RFE method to the result of a meta analysis approach as described by Rhodes et al.
The nonlinear minimisation function of the R package uses a Newton type algorithm .
The nonlinear minimisation function of the R package uses a Newton type algorithm .
The SW has been extensively used in DNA polymorphism studies for exploratory data analysis .
In an attempt to better understand the importance of sucrose mobilization in this pathway a yeast invertase was expressed in an inducible manner in growing potato tubers and the metabolite changes were monitored by a metabolite profiling approach coupling mass spectrometry to gas chromatography .
We also evaluated the proposed method on all SAPs obtained from the Swiss Prot the method achieves MCC with overall accuracy .
A highly accurate method has been developed for predicting subcellular location of mycobacterial proteins .
HMM B TMR is a profile based HMM method that was trained for the first time on a non redundant set of outer membrane proteins and later current version on a larger dataset of outer membrane proteins .
Recently a method for unique oligo discovery that was a modification of a central pattern partitioning principle was published .
In a previous study we identified motifs associated with life span extension in sch ras and tor using a cut off based method .
Finally PROQRES is the only method in this set which has been developed specifically to predict local errors in crude protein models .
In order to separate the effect of the method from the procedure to impute the missing values we repeated the analysis both by filtering out all the genes with missing observations and by using the KNN method to impute them .
However the rigorous tableau searching method is too slow for a full database search and so Konagurthu et alintroduce TableauSearch .
One proposed approach is to find the maximum likelihood estimate for the scale of the variance for each print tip group .
In summary the control method is essentially a restriction to STEPS and of our identification method see Results section .
Another approach is to employ comparative sequence analysis .
We have proposed a new method to analyze the protein protein interaction network grounded on the combination of a clustering algorithm of the vertices and a refined method allowing to assign a function to proteins of yet unknown function .
A suitable algorithm was previously utilized   but not described in detail .
Previously we developed a method to predict CRMs based on TF interactions .
Chan et alused a non alignment based method FastCompare to identify conserved k mers in worm and fly .
An advantage of our proposed method relative to testing procedures based on genotypic data is that only p value data are needed .
We have developed a drug target prediction method based solely on protein sequence information without the knowledge of family domain annotation or the proteinD structure .
I will start by describing the steps to implement the method before explaining how to derive those steps .
We have developed a Bayesian network approach to find regulatory rules enriched in a foreground sequences for example the promoters of a set of co regulated genes compared with the background sequences .
Unlike many existing methods our proposed method is simple and effective .
I described an algorithm which addresses the evolution of gaps as an extra residue in a N N substitution matrix .
We used the results of these studies to show that mutual information analysis is highly effective for identifying systematic differences between sets of sequences .
The extension of the training set based on the co author graph and synonym lists is one step closer to the classical context based approaches namely looking for gene names in the text of the abstracts .
We propose a method for an integrated study of survival time and gene expression .
Detailed analysis of the predicted drug targets with examples proves the effectiveness and predictive power of the model built .
Therefore we developed a method that relates variations in kinetic parameters to differences in protein structures .
The iterative clustering method offers considerable improvement over clustering in all genes .
We have developed a computational method to estimate the pre miRNA content and to predict the location of precursor miRNAs in genomic sequences .
Here we demonstrate how the use of SQUAD helps to simulate the behavior of regulatory networks modeled with the standardized qualitative dynamical systems methodology .
Stepanova et al developed a method which can be used for the prediction of hormone response elements HRE de novo .
We describe a new method for identifying outliers when fitting data with nonlinear regression .
WBP is the most commonly used algorithm for reconstruction in ET .
The method is available in the limma software package which is implemented in the R software environment .
Therefore to evaluate the performance of various methods we used a different method pioneered by Nye and colleagues .
Another alignment algorithm assumes no knowledge of peaks in common .
The first and oldest method proposed by Lipman and Pearson and described extensively by Comet et aland others   uses Monte Carlo simulations to investigate the significance of a score s calculated from the alignment of two real sequences a and b .
We propose a multiple clustering method to perform the clustering .
We propose an alternative baseline correction method based on a penalized smoothing model .
For their single tree approach Cummings and Myers provided the raw numbers of correctly and incorrectly classified edited and unedited positions making it possible to calculate specificity and sensitivity in the same way as for PREP Mt .
We also proposed a submatrix imputation method to determine whether to use integrative imputation with a given collection of reference datasets .
We developed a method to detect sequence motifs corresponding to putative regulatory elements in gene promoters starting from lists of approximate patterns with occurrences in promoter sequences .
In this paper we present a computational improvement to a sequence clustering method that we introduced previously to analyze large microbial metagenomic datasets and that was used in the GOS study .
We presented a method for finding relationships between the expression of a gene and that of a known pathway that are changed across phenotypes .
Association rules discovery technique ARD is a data mining method that has been extensively used in many applications to discover associations among subsets of items from large transaction databases .
Automics implements a fuzzy wrapping method .
More recently other methods have become available such as the Assumption free analysis .
We have shown that a multi way method can be used to analyze differences in the amino acid composition within and between species .
The reference methods FASTA and BLAST give quite different results FASTA is a good second and BLAST has scores similar to Paracel and Biofacet .
At present the most popular method of PCR efficiency assessment is based on the slope of standard curve .
Tsai et alproposed a statistical method to identify cell cycle associated TFs in yeast which used the Kolmogorov Smirnov KS test to examine whether expressions of the target and non target gene sets of a TF are significantly different .
We present Searchpattool a new method to search for and select the most specific conservative frequent patterns .
We propose a robust semiparametric method in a two way semi linear model TW SLM for normalization of cDNA microarray data .
Besides two global methods maximization of the spectrum integral and minimization of the spectrum entropy implemented in Automics we have introduced another easier to implement method for automatic phase correction .
They used the least squares method for estimating the normalization curves based on B splines .
By varying the search strategy according to a priori defined transition probabilities which are dependent on the search progress this approach leads to an algorithm that sacrifices an exact relationship with the canonical ensemble for search efficiency .
The paper by Taewon Lee et alpresents a method to test the significance of expression changes within a group of genes while considering the correlation structure among genes in each group .
In this paper we propose a method for the normalization procedure based on a non linear mixed model as well as a new approach for determining the statistical significance of altered probes based on linear mixed model .
Lee and colleagues improved on a previous work by creating what we refer to in this paper as the Integrated Bayesian IB method .
One such Fst method is described in but see also and and is implemented in the fdist program and can be used for any codominant genetic molecular markers including microsatellites Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms SNPs and allozymes .
Here we propose a method implemented in MXSCARNA for fast multiple alignments of RNA sequences .
We presented here a new computational method for verification of PPIs that is based on the co expression of orthologous protein pairs and demonstrated its predictive power using PPIs identified in Scerevisiae .
ARD is a data mining technique oriented towards finding associations or correlation relationships among items in transaction datasets .
Internal calibration is a widely used method in mass spectrometry .
Here we present the design and implementation of a novel and robust online phenotype discovery method with broad applicability that can be used in diverse experimental contexts especially high throughput RNAi screens .
To meet the needs of clinical proteomics of comparing large sets ofD gels we have developed Sili Dgel an automatic gel alignment method based on graph theory to find SAP without manual adjustment after a recursive alignment procedure .
In order to compute the distance between a matrix and a set of indices our software uses the correlation method described by Tomii and Kanehisa .
The method of Chaussabel and Sher can be used to analyze gene lists in order to cluster the genes based on up to date literature associations .
The TGDR approach was originally proposed for the linear regression .
As an alternative to the existing noise detection and interpolation approaches we developed a new baseline correction method based on a penalized parametric smoothing model .
A more general method described in used scores based on atom pairs that contact across interfaces combined with iterative partitioning of the graph representing crystal contacts in order to predict complexes .
Due to the spread of residues being more on the diametrical plane of these helices the axis found using the eigenvector method lay closer to the plane of the diameter instead of being normal to it .
To compare organism amino acid composition we performed hierarchical clustering using the complete linkage method with distances computed using the Euclidean metric on a dataset that consisted of the mean percent amino acid composition from all predicted open reading frames for each of the organisms Figure .
The TatP method is able to positively classify of known Tat signal peptides and of the annotated cleavage sites of these Tat signal peptides were correctly predicted .
To produce an accurate multiple sequence alignment of a domain family for pinpointing insertion events the structure based multiple sequence alignment of each family was constructed with a similar method proposed by Casbon and Saqi in building Sa database of structure based sequence alignments of SCOP superfamilies .
In the complete linkage algorithm the distance between clusters is defined as the distance between the most distant pair of objects i.egenes .
We are able to build a low bias and a low variance predictor using model averaging method classifier ensembles .
From this combined data set samples we selected genes classified as Present see Methods at least once genes and then clustered the log transformed data with average linkage analysis .
We present a novel method for classification of hot and cold ORFs located in hotspots and coldspots respectively in Saccharomyces cerevisiae using support vector machine SVM which relies on codon composition differences .
This algorithm which is usually referred to as the Chou Fasman method tries to find structures based on the difference in the probability of observing each of the twenty residues in helices sheets and other structures .
Nevertheless SAM has one much worse problem its method for estimating FDR which we will show does not produce meaningful results .
Population biologists have developed an analysis of variance ANOVA  style of analysis which tests whether a collection of communities have similar genetic diversities using mitochondrial DNA sequences and other genetic markers .
Elements defined by our method can be approximated using vectors and we have retained longer elements wherever possible .
The proposed method has the practical advantages over existing approaches to consider complex heterogeneities in the alternative hypothesis to take into account prior information from an expert judgment or previous studies by allowing a semi supervised mode and to deal with truncated distributions such as those obtained in Monte Carlo simulations .
Alignment based analysis of RIP involves the multiple alignment of a repeat family and counting RIP mutations along the alignment for all sequences .
We have recently developed an SVD based phylogenetic method that provides accurate comparisons of a high fraction of sequences within whole genomes without the prior identification of orthologs or homologous sites .
In the past we reported the development of a method to generate such models called the Stabilized Matrix Method SMM .
They used a Monte Carlo MC hill climbing algorithm to search for the most probable alignments .
We used the Sammon projection method as the embedding procedure .
Note that caution should be taking when evaluating the predictive performance of the ARB method .
Note that caution should also here be taking when evaluating the predictive performance of the ARB method .
The second algorithm used was PAM Predictive Analysis for Microarrays a shrunken centroid method of classification .
Thus we have developed a reliable heuristic method for determining dependency types automatically given the dependency structure .
However the successful application of the method is contingent on data quality control e.gamplification efficiencies .
In this study we have developed a tandem machine learning approach for the identification of regulatory target genes based on these parameters and on the corresponding binding site information contents that measure the affinities of the factor for these cognate elements .
Here we focus on spacer oligonucleotide typing spoligotyping a technique that exploits polymorphism in the direct repeat DR region of Mtuberculosis .
To remedy this problem Zhang et aldeveloped a novel coalescence guided hierarchical Bayesian method wich uses a hierarchical structure to directly model the coalescence relationship among modern day haplotypes .
The minimum covariance determinant MCD regression method is a well performing robust regression method that can also handle cases where both X and y are multivariate .
We introduce a novel multi chip normalization method for Affymetrix based aCGH data .
In this paper we propose the AT excursion method which is a score based approach to quantify local AT abundance in genomic sequences and use the identified high scoring segments for predicting replication origins .
Application of this method to two publicly available cancer data sets yields suggestive and promising results .
We use the detection algorithm based on simulated annealing which aims at maximizing the modularity of a partition and which finds the number of modules automatically .
A useful method of integrated analysis of expression data within an interaction network is the ActivePaths algorithm .
The entire core and complete kinomes were clustered using the probabilistic method described by Samanta and Liang .
Our theoretical approach suggests a method for understanding the combined effect of changes in the expression of multiple genes on the activity of metabolic pathways and consequently on the adaptation of cellular metabolism to heat shock .
Excluding non core ? sheet residues from the ? sheet fraction makes sense in view of the large variety of dihedral angles assigned as ? sheet by the DSSP algorithm .
Since baseline substraction is straightforward we mainly focus on the baseline estimation procedure in different methods .
Here we present a novel approach to generate quasi median networks for a set of aligned DNA sequences .
BRNI is based on our method to infer biochemical models of single gene regulation .
Here we have developed a new method of estimating the error rate of curated sequence annotations and applied this to the Gene Ontology GO sequence database GOSeqLite .
Among these approaches the Affymetrix GeneChipMapping Assay is increasingly used for detecting CNVs in human DNA .
We then estimate this integral using a method we developed called the Uniform Distance Method UDM .
BIG PI is the first publicly released method for GPI anchor prediction and the predictions are made by four kingdom specific predictors .
We apply this method to various networks such as the Ecoli transcriptional regulatory network the macaque cortex network a foodweb network and the Buchnera aphidicola metabolic network .
So while this approach is conceptually and numerically simple it does not provide dimension reduction does not take into account the continuity of the underlying trajectories and is subject to measurement errors in the predictors .
While we used AceView for redefining probe sets the method of regrouping probes can be applied using any public or in house database and the guidelines provided here for creating a viable probe set should be generally applicable .
In our method the inversion could be detected by including the reverse complementary sequences in the sequence set .
Since this method does not need pre defined target gene sets it requires no threshold selection for binding affinity scores or gene expression changes .
We propose an online phenotype discovery method for high throughput RNAi screen which can be used in the course of many image based screens .
In real time PCR data analysis the cycle threshold CT method is currently the gold standard .
We propose a new method that improves the accuracy of the predictions achieved by the phylogenetic approaches tested here see Methods or the five methods based on network analyses .
We have presented a method to estimate the score distributions of RNA helices or single strand profiles and of their combinations into larger motifs .
We have presented an algorithm to align multiple sequences and reconstruct the phylogenies that minimize the alignment score .
Recently Bockhorst et alproposed a very accurate method for predicting operons promoters and terminators in Ecoli .
A further reduction in total within group variance can be achieved by using the ratio method described in this report .
In this article we present a computational method for annotating gene expression pattern images .
To discard tags that are likely to have been generated by sequencing errors we implemented Colinge and Feger 's method .
To address this we utilized a method for expanding the set of terms associated with a given GO node .
We present a novel statistical approach that allows regulatory DNA to be distinguished from coding and non coding non regulatory regions according to its fluffiness values .
We first performed the comparison with the individual method used in ProFunc that most closely matches our own PEAS .
The final method for indel coding is also described by Simmons and Ochoterena .
Besides the traditional analysis methods the motif discovery algorithms can also be used to find possible TFBSs in the promoter regions of homologous gene sets .
As most of the existing domain based methods consider only single domain pairs and assume independence between domain domain interactions Xue Wen et alintroduced a domain based random forest of decision trees to infer protein interactions .
We have introduced an improved method of searching for protein structures with similar folds using tableaux incorporating constraints on the distances between SSEs to improve accuracy .
The principle of this method is to calculate the second derivative of the likelihood and to select the number of classes for which this derivative exceeds a threshold which is set to in practice .
The proposed method is used along with the Best Fit Extension problem .
A fast structural comparison algorithm allows the rapid scanning of one or more protein structures with the library looking for local structural similarities .
The method does not require a linear assumption and has the desirable property of scale invariance with respect to TF specific binding affinity .
In Table we have also added an additional approach denoted by lthe equivalent to the l  regularization but using an l  penalty instead of an l  penalty on the coefficients of the log linear model .
Our method for modeling dependencies is simply an extension of position independencies methods .
In this paper we analyse the capability of wavelet power spectrum in feature selection and we propose a method of feature selection based on Haar wavelet power spectrum .
Biophysically motivated elementary free energies can be learned using SVM techniques to construct an energy cost function whose predictive performance rivals state of the art .
The SBL algorithm is a general Bayesian framework to obtain sparse solutions utilizing linear models .
So far apart from exact algorithms evaluating the volume of the space of possible solutions that are unsuitable for analyzing metabolic networks larger than some dozens metabolites the best technique allowing for such a characterization is based on Monte Carlo sampling MCS of the steady state flux space   .
Here the neural gas clustering method is used with Pearson correlation similarity measure for computing cluster centroids .
Shiraishi et alpublished a variable order variable step Taylor series method that can be used as an ODE solver providing a highly accurate calculation to compute dynamic sensitivities .
Elston et aldeveloped an algorithm that is efficient on pedigrees that have little inbreeding .
For each interaction a corresponding method is generated .
Second the objective functions of clustering algorithms have been used to evaluate the algorithms .
Using a force directed optimisation method we were able to produce tree layouts in three dimensions upon which the protein interactions could be projected .
Accurate interpretation of data obtained by unsupervised analysis of large scale expression profiling studies is currently frequently performed by visually combining sample gene heatmaps and sample characteristics .
We describe here in detail a new analysis method that has been used to analyze the transcriptome in yeast .
We evaluate the performances of a footprint discovery approach based on the detection of over represented spaced motifs .
A more elaborate method built on PCA is explored in this study to utilize the directional information contained in the eigenvector corresponding to  named here as the PCC analysis as described in Section Methods .
After the filtering step the genes left for the analysis were of which   had between and missing values .
A graphical technique based on the spread versus level plot may also be used to empirically estimate p .
In summary we examined the applicability of using Zipf 's law as the basis for a novel normalization technique which is applicable to both one channel microarray data and two channel microarrays .
In general this method would also be suitable for experiments where multiple replicates of protein sample and LC MS injection are available .
In order to offset the bias of the censored survival time we employ a nonparametric method to impute the censored survival time .
We refer to this as the ratio method .
Simmons and Ochoterena have proposed a fourth method for coding indels .
A recent novel approach for knowledge based clustering involves the use of selectively snipping the edges of a typical hierarchical clustering tree to induce clusters that are maximally consistent with available background information such as functional annotations .
The first method finds the best matching peptide from a sequence database using a scoring function based on the likelihood that an identified peptide is actually the peptide of the spectrum .
The Sum Height SH greedy method denoted by SH selects a character that will result in the largest increase in the sum height .
The method to analyze all ConsWH or CombWH in any window sizes are called exhaustive window haplotype analysis .
The advantage of such an approach is that it allows the detection of conserved regulatory modules in highly divergent sequences as we have demonstrated both with simulated sequences as well as with real world examples .
In order to assess the importance of different methods for total weight calculation we implemented a version of the SAM bits saved method in the HMMER code .
After this we estimated the isotopic peak profile for a peptide of the same mass using the method of averagines .
In this article we present a method that extracts biological named entities directly from full length articles .
A further approach has been taken using partial correlations that deconvolute contributions by additional parameters in order to reduce the list of correlations to basic dependencies which may present a link from correlation to causality .
Hallikas et alpropose the EEL algorithm for finding alignments of significant motif occurrences instead of the sequences themselves .
Since we have proposed a new approximate inference algorithm it is important to identify when this method works better than other approximate inference methods .
In this study we propose a predictive method primarily based on sequence and phylogenic information with the aim to apply it to the entire human genome .
Let 's examine three representative Goose methods again see the supplement for a fully documented simple goose .
 The strips sampling sm is the most suitable sampling method for the effective reduction of the sequence set when more than sequences are detected by BlastP searches .
Applied to gene name data it provided a useful analysis of name variation of related genes within and between species .
Instead of using the most probable sequence alignments the method utilizes the a posteriori probabilities for nucleotide alignments in order to establish the alignment constraints .
We therefore developed an automatic method for the spatial normalization of array CGH data .
The SVM RFE is a quite popular method of feature selection in an iterative manner .
In Hajibabaei et alwe pioneered a new visually appealing technique for drawing organic looking phylogenetic trees .
The individual observation log odds ratios are themselves constructed from positionally defined Markov Models pMM 's so what results is a pMM SVM sensor method .
By simulation study we confirmed that the proposed method can detect more reliable information from a combined data and it is more effective in small data sets derived from different experimental conditions .
The traditional method to select a set of marker genes is as follows rank the genes according to their significance in gene expression differences between diseased and normal samples using a statistical test e.gt test use a classification method to evaluate the prediction error by using the top one gene followed by the top two genes the top three genes and so on until a pre specified number of genes or a minimum prediction error is reached .
As an initial statistical analysis we used Affymetrix software to define genes that showed expression changes Increased Decreased or Marginal in expression levels between pairs of profiles difference analyses .
The acceptor photobleaching fluorescence resonance energy transfer FRET method is widely used for monitoring molecular interactions in cells .
The details of the resulting algorithm are outlined in Section .
In order to remove any variability introduced through the use of different multiple comparisons corrections the False Discovery Rate FDR controlling method of Benjamini and Yekutieli was used to provide control of Type I errors when testing for changes in multiple gene sets .
The present study proposes a new method for the prediction of catalytic sites in proteins based on their residue residue contact networks .
We have developed a new Monte Carlo based method to predict the mapping between two interacting protein families .
A prediction method ProLoc GO based on GOmining was implemented using the feature set of informative GO terms .
The lookahead scoring technique is also employed in the suffix tree based method of .
In literature of microarray processing a   is often used as the genome wide significant level so the gene specific significance level is aa  n Recently a new modification of the MMM algorithm Mod MMM hereafter was introduced .
To evaluate the method seven peptides peptides and were predicted from the amino acid sequence of TPO and IA by using the standard algorithm BEPITOPE .
We have developed a method to identify interacting TFs based on patterns of co occurrence of pairs of DNA binding sites .
The  cross validation method Figure requires more than train test runs to reduce the variance of these estimates .
The  cross validation method Figure requires more than train test runs to achieve the same .
We developed Nearest Neighbor Networks NNN a graph based algorithm to generate clusters of genes with similar expression profiles .
Our method called BioPNG encodes Affymetrix probe data as indicated in Figure A .
The kernel machine method with the support vector machine SVM as a most popular example has emerged in the last decade as a powerful machine learning technique in high dimensional settings .
The method appears to be resilient against the presence of false positive interactions .
In this paper we developed a logistic kernel machine regression model for binary outcomes where the covariate effects are modeled parametrically and the genetic pathway effect is modeled nonparametrically using the kernel machine method .
The two distance measures are converted to zscores based on the permutation method described in .
Recently Ishwaran and Rao building upon work in introduced a method for detecting differentially expressing genes between multiple groups termed Bayesian ANOVA for microarrays BAM .
In addition to the above mentioned two methods an intelligent adaptive binning method was also implemented in Automics .
We conclude that the new approach is effective and useful in assessing the quality of tandem mass spectrum by analysing the self convolution result of the spectra .
One such method GeneRank uses the same principles as Google 's PageRank algorithm to rank differentially expressed genes based on gene expression data and prior biological knowledge .
We have used a new integrative approach that allows to incorporate AS detection into ab initio gene prediction .
Our approach sets a threshold for the fraction of arrays called Present in at least one treatment group .
Most analyses in this paper used the background adjusted see above logtransformed data from replicate beads on a given array and summarised these values using Illumina 's default method .
In this article we present a computational method for automated annotation of Drosophila gene expression pattern images .
We use the approximate normal modes calculation method developed by Hinsen and implemented in the MMTK package .
We use the approximate normal modes calculation method developed by Hinsen and implemented in the MMTK package .
The CCV method although not requiring a process of defining orthologs considers every possible string of length up to k for whole genome sequences .
Background correction can be performed via the normexp method .
The model fitting procedure derived from the results of the simulation study Sections provides a fast and reliable approach to parameter estimation .
The method of Gutteridge et alis based on sequence conservation and structural features and predicts active sites with a high success rate .
A related method that performs pairwise network alignment between species is the PathBLAST method   which offers a general solution to the problem of PIN comparison .
The next worst performing method on the measurement level was kNN .
Here we present a novel approach based on support vector machines to predict the binding of peptides to MHC class I molecules SVMHC .
Here we present a novel approach SVMHC based on support vector machines to predict the binding of peptides to MHC class I molecules .
The PCA maSigFun analysis of these data revealed as expected the more detailed picture of the functional aspects of auxin treatment .
Spectral referencing which sets the inner reference peak DSS TSP of each spectrum to ppm can be regarded as a simple global method for peak alignment .
An SVM based approach has been proposed that parses the mfe structure in triplets structural information about the pairing states of every three nucleotides represented using dot bracket notation .
More recently Rajapakse et alproposed a complex splice site detection method by combining mostly second order Markov models with backpropagation neural networks BPNN .
Having obtained the dissimilarity indexes Ward 's clustering a hierarchically agglomerative clustering method is used to decompose the network .
To select a few features out of hundreds we apply a simple greedy selection method as follows a forward stepwise selection as described in section was applied twenty times to the aa and seq feature set of dataset A mic .
In the last few years flux balance analysis FBA has been the most successful and widely used technique for studying metabolism at system level .
The tau leaping algorithms are all based on the modified tau leaping procedure proposed by Cao et alwhich avoids the problem of negative populations observed for the original tau leaping procedure .
We present a novel method for the analysis of microarray data that identifies joint differential expression in gene pathway pairs .
Statistical total correlation spectroscopy STOCSY analysis method has also been implemented in Automics .
The toolbox currently implements a simple alignment method utilizing the master peak list .
The gene expression levels are typically estimated by the Tukey 's biweight method .
The HSM method iteratively divides the data set into samples of half the size as the original set and uses the half sample with the minimum range where range is defined as the difference between the maximum and the minimum value of the sample .
To test for the effect of race on gene expression gene by gene analysis of variance ANOVA with three groups was used .
Here we propose an extension of our polynomial based method to cluster short expression profiles measured in different conditions .
The first method calculates the principal moment of the helix residues and used the eigenvector corresponding to the largest eigenvalue as the helix axis .
The plot Figurea demonstrates that the global size change is minimal after image and the subtler differences in shape are not picked up by this method .
The Fisher kernel was the first method that used support vector machines .
To interpret such gene expression changes gene set enrichment analysis has been proposed .
We propose a quadratic regression method for identification of differentially expressed genes and classification of genes based on their temporal expression profiles for non cyclic short time course microarray data .
In this gene retrieval method a query gene vector is one of column vectors of A .
A well established method is a phage display .
Here we present ARACNE a novel algorithm using microarray expression profiles specifically designed to scale up to the complexity of regulatory networks in mammalian cells yet general enough to address a wider range of network deconvolution problems .
Such missing values often complicate further statistical analyses and for this reason we developed a secondary peak picking method for filling these gaps .
An expectation maximization EM approach is used to iteratively improve the imputed MVs and expression covariance matrix until total change in the matrix falls below a prescribed threshold here taken to be .
In recent work we proposed an automated method to perform alphabet reduction .
In the present study a new method for the detection of protein active sites is introduced .
Another method which we refer to as the Lake method uses Markov triple analysis MTA as a different approach to finding the P^U matrices for rooted triples of sequences .
We start by describing a method for the accurate estimation of statistical significance of single binding sites .
Other attempts at the problem use local search methods on complete conformations including the GTabu algorithm .
Identification of overrepresented DNA binding sites in genes of the same cluster is performed by the SCOPE method .
In Arnold introduced a technique based onH Nuclear Magnetic Resonance NMR spectroscopy .
For the Closest Sense method CS input was the UMLS semantic network and the article abstracts .
According to this algorithm clusters are built from the bottom up first by merging individual items into clusters and then by merging clusters into superclusters until the final merge brings all items into a single cluster .
We also propose a modification of an existing method where the statistical framework determines whether a set of proteins shows an association with the predefined phenotypes of interest .
We have adopted a very common method that selects k to maximize the average silhouette described below .
Data and results can be exported to other formats including PSI MI Excel and DTA Sequest files for additional analysis using other tools .
Chou et alproposed the component coupling algorithm that took into account the coupling effect among different amino acid components .
Therefore this method is well suited for generating sequences that can be recognized by both HMMER and Match without giving an unfair disadvantage to any of the two methods .
Hedman et alincluded information about predicted transmembrane segments into the standard Smith Waterman and profile search algorithms for membrane proteins by adding an extra delta score when two residues that are both predicted to belong to transmembrane segments are aligned .
They developed a matrix decomposition method called network component analysis NCA to determine transcription regulator activity .
A comparative study published some years ago indicated that the most accurate predictive method at that time is based on the prediction of turns .
A faster model fitting procedure can be devised by replacing the first phase of the Baum Welch algorithm with a maximisation step .
The third method RANK calculates a relevance score as described below .
Szabo et al discuss conditions under which this method is a valid one for testing two sample hypotheses with microarray data .
In particular our analysis revealed the emergence of links between a core set of pathways in the cMyc dataset which may play an important role for the comprehension of the early phenotypical changes following cMyc activation .
RDAM is a method for identifying genes with changing expression levels using the user determined FDR and/or S selection parameters .
A recent publication described a supervised classification method for microarray data Between Group Analysis BGA .
The famous Lempel Ziv algorithm can efficiently extract the information on repeated patterns encoded in RNA secondary structures and makes our method an alternative to analyze the similarity of RNA secondary structures .
Our method of gene selection will not return sets of genes that are highly correlated because they are redundant .
By the method we proposed we could determine the robust stability under intrinsic fluctuations and identify the genes that are significantly affected by extrinsic noises which we call the weak structure of the network .
We have presented a method to test the significance of expression changes within a group of genes while considering the correlation structure among genes in each group .
A conservative adjustment method Bonferroni 's adjustment is to divide the experiment wise Type I error level a by the number of hypotheses tested N   and use that as the cut off for significant p values .
In this study we proposed a scoring method Eqthat combined the predicted variance information to compare two spectra under total ion current normalization .
Bisecting K Means BKM The initial centroids are calculated using a variation of the Bisecting K Means algorithm .
For example UniqueProt is a fast and simple method that reduces the redundancy of the dataset by removing over represented sequences based on a user defined percent identity threshold .
In the analysis a continuous portion of an antigen is sequentially substituted into a different sequence .
In the first stage the SVM RFE technique was most efficient and robust in the presence of low number of samples and high input space dimension .
To avoid training data sparseness and to structure the hypothesis space based on the entire protein distribution we have proposed a prediction method that uses Joachims spectral graph transducer and is trained on both structure known sequences and structure unknown sequences .