Other approaches to the quantification of the ER and the PR described in the literature have used antibody-conjugated fluorophores and fluorescent microscopy systems 19 20 .
Here we propose a new and unbiased approach that is capable of inducing intermediate-scale conformational changes by continually applying a local perturbation throughout a short MD simulation .
An alternative approach to correct for multiple testing could be to use permutation testing and assess the distribution of a maximum test statistic or minimum P-value after repeating the entire two-stage procedure n times for example with n 1,000 74 75 .
We compared the gene lists generated by the RFE method to the result of a meta-analysis approach as described by Rhodes et al8 .
The data were analyzed using qualitative methods of content analysis and constant comparison derived from grounded theory approach 11 .
Our overall approach takes advantage of the transparency of the nematode and allows us to visualize gene expression in vivo in real time in a living animal .
Another method which will reduce the number of ambiguities in the B locus is the utilization of a two tube group amplification approach DYNAL Biotech Brown Deer WI .
Final alignment among aa sequences within each group was generated with PROALIGN V0.4 available at 38 a program implementing a method for multiple sequence alignment that combines an HMM approach a progressive alignment algorithm and a probabilistic evolution model describing the character substitution process 39 .
In conclusion BsaXI RFLP analysis is a simple and rapid approach for the single step determination of D310 polymorphism of mitochondrial DNA .
In an attempt to better understand the importance of sucrose mobilization in this pathway a yeast invertase was expressed in an inducible manner in growing potato tubers 33 and the metabolite changes were monitored by a metabolite profiling approach coupling mass spectrometry to gas chromatography 1 .
Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis 2-DE coupling MS is the most classic and well-established proteomic approach .
The set association approach manages the dimensionality problem by reducing the number of markers to a smaller number of important markers .
Structure 2.2 http pritch.bsd.uchicago.edu structure.html was used to detect cryptic population structure using the model-based approach of Pritchard et al34 .
One proposed approach is to find the maximum likelihood estimate for the scale of the variance for each print-tip group 16 .
We then used the noninvasive technique of fluorescence microscopy on intact living leaf tissue as an independent approach to confirm the localization of N and p50-U1 .
Tackling these difficulties we utilize a novel approach for quantitative rigorous multiple-knockouts analysis the Multiple-perturbations Shapley value Analysis MSA See Methods a methodology introduced at 13 .
A third approach is to use Bayesian statistics to infer divergence times .
Our whole-genome approach will prove particularly helpful when elucidating mechanisms of drug resistance in vitro or in clinical isolates of Pfalciparum as demonstrated by the identification of pfdxr amplification in fosmidomycin resistance .
We have developed a Bayesian network approach to find regulatory rules enriched in a foreground sequences for example the promoters of a set of co-regulated genes compared with the background sequences .
The extension of the training set based on the co-author graph and synonym lists is one step closer to the classical context-based approaches namely looking for gene names in the text of the abstracts .
The first approach allowed us to prioritize nine candidate SNP-SNP interactions that were consistently selected by the stepwise procedure across the bootstrap samples i.ein more than 30 of the 1,000 random samples and that were significant based on the age adjusted bootstrap P-values .
Recently Franke et al73 developed a Bayesian approach to reconstruct a functional human gene network that integrates information on genes and the functional relationships between them based on data from multiple sources the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes the Biomolecular Interaction Network Database and so on .
Matthew Dimmic University of Copenhagen Denmark introduced a Bayesian phylogenetic approach for the detection of coevolving amino-acid residues in protein families .
In this work we have developed a theoretical approach to estimate allele frequency in pooled DNA samples based on the physical principles of DNA immobilization and hybridization on solid surface using the Langmuir kinetic model and quantitative analysis of the allelic signals .
A novel approach to increase T cell responses to vaccination is the heterologous prime-boost immunization strategy 21 .
The original comparative approach which is still widely used is modelling by rigid-body assembly 4 .
The case-crossover approach consists in a case-control study whereby each person who had an event is matched with himor herself on a nearby time period in which that individual did not have the event .
For their single-tree approach Cummings and Myers provided the raw numbers of correctly and incorrectly classified edited and unedited positions making it possible to calculate specificity and sensitivity in the same way as for PREP-Mt .
A simple approach to detect deleted genes is to average probe values across each gene and select genes with unusually low relative hybridization values 3 .
In order to assess the branching of ch?tognaths and to stress the usefulness of RP genes for phylogenomics a RP dataset was assembled using the composite dataset approach 18 .
HaploStats expands on the likelihood approach to account for ambiguity in case-control studies by using a generalized linear model to test for haplotype association which allows for adjustment of nongenetic covariates 70 .
To control for the possibility of spurious associations resulting from population stratification we used the EIGENSTRAT approach of Price et al 57 .
Finally Sandelin and Wasserman 15 used their own column comparison function SW within the context of a dynamic programming alignment approach to compare DNA motifs .
Later a second approach confirmed the deletion based on an interrogation of a dense single nucleotide polymorphism SNP marker map generated as part of the International HapMap Project 17 .
Evidence of positive selection was sought using a codon-based approach as implemented in Datamonkey 68 .
An alternative approach would be to use a different type of BCI which operates on the basis of event-related potentials P300 and allows for presentation of at least four choices 29-31 .
Here we introduce a novel and computationally inexpensive visual approach for detecting recombination and inferring breakpoints .
Here we show that the transport lattice approach can be used to model transport of heat by conduction and temperature-dependent blood perfusion .
Although our primary analytic methods will focus on the concordant pair design we will also use a complementary and related approach the discordant sibling pair method .
In this paper we propose a method for the normalization procedure based on a non-linear mixed-model as well as a new approach for determining the statistical significance of altered probes based on linear mixed-model .
The most prevalent top-down costing approach is the ratio of cost to charge RCC method .
Although the simple computational approach presented here uses homologous protein coding genes and corresponding NGPs the method is applicable to a wide range of homologous genome markers .
In this study we propose and extensively test a new approach for the prediction of helix-lipid interfaces of TM helices from sequence information alone based on a canonical model of the alpha helix .
The TGDR approach was originally proposed for the linear regression 7 .
As an alternative to the existing noise detection and interpolation approaches we developed a new baseline correction method based on a penalized parametric smoothing model .
The narrative interviews have been interpreted using a phenomenological-hermeneutic approach inspired by Ricoeur 11 13 which has previously been applied in a similar way 14 15 .
A patient-centred approach to measuring efficacy in migraine treatment studies involves asking each patient to rate the relative importance of key outcomes such as speed of pain relief duration of relief i.eabsence of headache recurrence improvement in migraine-associated symptoms e.gnausea photophobia and phonophobia and risk of side effects .
An alternative approach is based on sequencing by base specific cleavage as described in the previous section .
As a second alternative approach we developed an unsupervised clustering procedure see Material and Methods .
Another surgical approach suggested for the management of BAV associated with a dilated ascending aorta 5.5 cm is to carry out AVR with wrapping of the ascending aorta .
2Budget driven mechanisms also described as a pragmatic approach where service levels and associated workforce levels are determined in the context of defined expenditure targets .
A similar approach has been used by Blitzblau and coworkers with similar conclusions 56 .
It is a new approach to subtype bacteria which involve amplification and fragment size analysis of polymorphic regions of DNA containing variable numbers of tandem repeat sequences .
The proposed method has the practical advantages over existing approaches to consider complex heterogeneities in the alternative hypothesis to take into account prior information from an expert judgment or previous studies by allowing a semi-supervised mode and to deal with truncated distributions such as those obtained in Monte-Carlo simulations .
Specifically we used a new statistical approach to estimate recombination rate variation from patterns of linkage disequilibrium in a sample of 24 western chimpanzees Pan troglodytes verus .
In this article we present an entirely new approach to this problem namely the application of Ki-energy which can be enhanced through the practice of the Nishino Breathing Method NBM 19-21 .
The ASQOL was translated using the dual-panel approach 25 .
The pathway-guided approach to examine the correspondence between the known metabolic pathway and the organization of metabolic processes learned from expression data is to select sets of genes for pathways and search for significant co-expression within each pathway .
A useful way of discovering SNP 's in non-model organisms is by designing primers in exons in a species with considerable genomic data to amplify the corresponding exon or intron in a species with limited genetic data i.ethe EPIC approach 20 21 .
In one approach MAPCeL micro-array profiling of Celegans cells green-fluorescent protein GFP labeled cells are isolated by fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS from preparations of dissociated embryonic cells 5 .
One productive approach to the analysis and prediction of functional subtypes identified key sites in multiple protein sequence alignments that specify the different functional subtypes .
Because transcription factors tend to bind short and degenerate sequences the PWM-based approach provides better definition of transcription factor binding properties based on binding affinity .
The traditional approach for identification of relevant genes in susceptibility loci is a combination of positional cloning and linkage analysis 11 12 .
In this paper we propose the AT excursion method which is a score-based approach to quantify local AT abundance in genomic sequences and use the identified high scoring segments for predicting replication origins .
Recently we described a new high throughput AFLP htAFLP approach for the identification of DNA polymorphism in Mycobacterium tuberculosis 26 .
Mutation Miner approaches the problem differently .
Our theoretical approach suggests a method for understanding the combined effect of changes in the expression of multiple genes on the activity of metabolic pathways and consequently on the adaptation of cellular metabolism to heat shock .
In this work we present a new microarray-based high-throughput screening approach to identifying candidate marker mRNAs for early detection of epithelial cells diluted in peripheral blood cells .
Concurrent with the textbook-based identification of terms was the continuing effort to expand the vocabulary using a research data-driven approach .
Here we present a novel approach to generate quasi-median networks for a set of aligned DNA sequences .
Other approaches have been developed for the analysis of MLST data and a method based on minimum-spanning trees is incorporated into the Bionumericspackage 25 .
Recently a new approach for identifying substrates of protein kinases has applied the miniaturized format of functional protein arrays to characterize phosphorylation for thousands of candidate protein substrates in a single experiment .
We have developed an unsupervised approach to identifying coordinately acting biomarkers using heterogeneous microarray data which can be generalized to any set of gene expression data regardless of the platform on which they were generated .
Here a culture-independent environmental PCR survey approach was used to examine Cyanidiales species composition in nature .
In this paper we describe a rigorous statistical approach for detecting differentially abundant features taxa pathways subsystems etcbetween clinical metagenomic datasets .
We propose a new method that improves the accuracy of the predictions achieved by the phylogenetic approaches tested here see Methods or the five methods based on network analyses .
We have presented a new approach to non-parametric inference of demographic history from an inferred genealogy .
Therefore a complementary approach which monitors influx only was pursued by using the Mn2+-quenching technique in single intact amoebae .
We present a novel statistical approach that allows regulatory DNA to be distinguished from coding and non-coding non-regulatory regions according to its fluffiness values .
To estimate the deletion rate we used the maximum likelihood approach proposed by Petrov et al41 42 .
Perez-Castellano et al reported a new mapping approach to help localize the atrial insertion of AcP by reproducing the atrial activation sequence during orthodromic tachycardia through atrial pacing at the mapping catheter 12 .
In a previous work MVW-PCA was introduced as a new approach of application of PCA on dynamic PET images using various compounds among others 11C -PIB 5 .
To the summary statistic approaches we added the coalescence-based maximum-likelihood method of Galtier et al16 .
In Table 1 we have also added an additional approach denoted by l2 the equivalent to the l1-regularization but using an l2-penalty instead of an l1-penalty on the coefficients of the log-linear model .
Previous approaches for summarizing Dirichlet Process mixture model components have used pairwise co-clustering probabilities as a similarity measure for input into an agglomerative clustering algorithm 14 .
Early attempts to value mortality risk reductions applied the human capital approach which estimates the value of life as lost productivity .
Here we show that a transport lattice approach 9 can solve bioheat problems .
In order to specify the number of rules in fuzzy system we utilize subtractive clustering approach .
We evaluate the performances of a footprint discovery approach based on the detection of over-represented spaced motifs .
An alternative method is to use distance-based approaches where distances are those measured between the centroids or the intensity gravity centres of the nuclear compartments of interest .
A recent novel approach for knowledge-based clustering 29 involves the use of selectively snipping the edges of a typical hierarchical clustering tree to induce clusters that are maximally consistent with available background information such as functional annotations .
Hierarchical linear models HLM are a multilevel approach that characterizes individuals and animals as nested within groups e.gaccording to sex racial background or occupation as a means of investigating the interaction between individual-level and group-level variables 46 .
A further approach has been taken using partial correlations that deconvolute contributions by additional parameters in order to reduce the list of correlations to basic dependencies 21 which may present a link from correlation to causality 22 23 .
The QALY approach attempts to account for the quality of life lost by adjusting for time lost from disease or death .
Liang et al5 developed a multipoint linkage mapping approach for estimating the location of a trait locus using affected sibling pairs .
As all proteases described so far are cysteine proteases and nearly all proteolytic activity of cell extracts can be inhibited by cysteine protease specific inhibitors we chose a straightforward one-step purification approach described by Greenbaum et al .
In summary the method described here may represent an alternative approach to identify tumour-affected cervical regions in patients with metastasized MTC .
Instead we compared two different therapeutic approaches one with a prevalent effect at the peripheral and the other at the central level .
Pyrosequencing offers a new approach to data acquisition analysis and identification of known and unknown new alleles in particular in heterozygous conditions .
We utilized a highly quantitative experimental approach to assess a gene 's involvement in mitochondrial organization and biogenesis .
The present study uses a na?ve approach called cumulative TA skew 17-20 to seek the presence of foreign genetic elements in the genomes of the twelve currently completely sequenced Spyogenes strains Table 1 .
The deterministic record linkage approach generates links on the basis of a full agreement of a unique identifier or a set of common identifiers .
Their Bayesian approach to parameter estimation led to convergence problems in our data and therefore we used an alternative procedure within the empirical-Bayes framework to tackle this problem the EM estimation algorithm 26 in the presence of incomplete data .
For the analysis of the European study a novel approach was adopted in which items shown to be valued differently in different countries were treated as individual items .
In this regard it was necessary to break rank with typical approaches to designing diseaseand symptom-specific HRQL instrumentation since they are based on the premise that measures depend on a careful specification of disease-specific contexts and experiences .
We have implemented a sib-comparison design to examine the effects of migration by using a counter-factual approach of comparing the health outcomes of migrating people with their non-migrating sibs who remain resident in the place of origin of both .
Heritability estimates and evidence for linkage were obtained using the variance components approach implemented in SOLAR version 2.1.2 7 .
To identify interactions between Pfalciparum and human proteins a modified yeast two-hybrid approach was applied as described previously 12 .
ASAP method may be the only practical approach to obtain chloroplast DNA sequence from rare or small plant samples .
The technique uses a probabilistic ensemble approach to group the measured multivariate features into a set of consensus clusters .
Recent publications have analyzed the PMR of multiple births by alternative fetuses with a risk approach 18 19 where twin births had consistently higher mortality rates than singletons at all gestational ages .
We developed a novel approach for quantitative analysis of CpG methylation density on the basis of microarray-based hybridization and incorporation of Cy5-dCTP into the Cy3 labeled target DNAs by using Taq DNA Polymerase on microarray .
Dates were also estimated using a parametric Bayesian approach 34 in the program multidivtime .
We conclude that the new approach is effective and useful in assessing the quality of tandem mass spectrum by analysing the self-convolution result of the spectra .
We have used a new integrative approach that allows to incorporate AS detection into ab initio gene prediction .
For a quantitative assessment of metabolic fluxes Palsson and co-workers have developed a theoretical approach commonly referred to as flux balance analysis FBA 3 .
The evolutionary relationships among a-proteobacteria were also examined using the character compatibility approach 27 .
We describe here a novel approach to assessing potential risks of new introductions for biological control using probabilistic-risk assessment methods .
Numbers of oncogenic alterations genetic mutations or epigenetic alterations required for transformation were estimated from ages at cancer using a Bayesian approach as previously described 11 .
A qualitative approach was used as an important and essential first step in understanding the participants insiders view and their perceptions .
The same approach was repeated for reaction B with respect to reaction A .
The anchor-based approach we used estimates the change score at which the questionnaires discriminate best between improved and stable patients .
The model-fitting procedure derived from the results of the simulation study Sections 2.3.3-2.3.6 provides a fast and reliable approach to parameter estimation .
a statistical term weighting approach .
It is likely these additional positive samples are false positives as the trial using artificially infected mosquitoes indicated a lower sensitivity of detection than the nested approach .
Here we present a novel approach based on support vector machines to predict the binding of peptides to MHC class I molecules SVMHC .
Here we present a novel approach SVMHC based on support vector machines to predict the binding of peptides to MHC class I molecules .
As an alternative approach to recovering gene cassettes the cassette PCR technique has been developed 20 .
A different approach which is used in this study is to investigate the different developmental programs in the two cell types by characterizing the abundance of novel or previously known mRNAs separately for each cell-type by real-time RT-PCR studies .
An SVM-based approach has been proposed 25 that parses the mfe structure in triplets structural information about the pairing states of every three nucleotides represented using dot-bracket notation .
Herein we conducted a detailed study using a sliding-window approach .
According to Strauss and Corbin 22 the grounded theory approach is used because little is known about autonomy and self-management of people with type 2 diabetes in a nurse-led shared-care setting .
The intent of this study was to explore a practical approximation for implementing a Bayesian approach for nursing outcome report cards .
The information derived from these analyses is also limited by the use of the summary ROC approach to pool studies .
A new approach for disrupting gene function is RNA interference RNAi .
An expectation-maximization EM approach is used to iteratively improve the imputed MVs and expression covariance matrix until total change in the matrix falls below a prescribed threshold here taken to be 0.01 1 .
Another method which we refer to as the Lake method uses Markov triple analysis MTA as a different approach to finding the P^U matrices for rooted triples of sequences 13 .
Using this approach electrical potentials on the epicardial surface are calculated from signals recorded on the patient 's skin .
Here we report a computational approach based on a novel machine learning technique which enabled the identification of genome-wide TFBSs .
Under this approach to which we refer as the EWCL approach for Ewens Watterson Cornuet and Luikart see Materials and Methods population size change can not be dated or quantified .
Analysis of the interviews was undertaken using the framework approach outlined by Pope et al and Ritchie and Spencer 31 32 .
Very recently a fast analysis of all SNPs in a genome-wide association study was described using a method akin to a penalised likelihood approach 24 .
In the first approach gene expression of CD11bcells from mice after sublethal pYVand sublethal ?yopH infection was compared .
Two basic computational approaches were used to study the workings of such integrated models i rFBA regulatory flux balance analysis ?a method for simulating growth in batch cultures by predicting dynamic flux profiles i.ea series of steady-state flux distributions in a changing environment Covert et al 2001 2004 Herrgard et al 2006 .
Accomplishing this transfer forms a foundation for quantitative approaches to intraoperative surgical planning and outcomes assessment in valvular reconstructive surgery .
