In order to compare U133A and U133 Plus 2.0 data , we further normalized the data with a rank-based normalization method .
This method , " MetaNorm " , orders the values of the 22 215 PS of the Affymetrix U133A microarray and allocates a new value to each PS according to its rank , using a unique signal value template ( Assou et al. , manuscript in preparation ) .
In addition , HRV power spectral analysis lightens the burden imposed on subjects during an experiment , unlike invasive measurements , i.e. , plasma catecholamine concentration and muscle sympathetic nerve activity .
This method , already an established patient-friendly tool in cardiology research , is increasingly used for a broad range of clinical as well as psychophysiological applications [ 9-13 ] .
The Ortholuge method reported here appears to significantly improve the specificity ( precision ) of high-throughput ortholog prediction for both bacterial and eukaryotic species .
This method , and its associated software , will aid those performing various comparative genomics-based analyses , such as the prediction of conserved regulatory elements upstream of orthologous genes .
In the Bioinformatics field , a great deal of interest has been given to Non-negative matrix factorization technique ( NMF ) , due to its capability of providing new insights and relevant information about the complex latent relationships in experimental data sets .
This method , and some of its variants , has been successfully applied to gene expression , sequence analysis , functional characterization of genes and text mining .
The interfacial stiffness was defined as the slope ( Nm / degree of the torque-rotation curve ) calculated from a linear regression analysis of the data between 0 , 5° and 3° .
This method , as a non-destructive technique , evaluates the implant stability in term of interfacial stiffness .
Out of 41 naturally contaminated infant formulae and environmental samples analysed for the presence of E. sakazakii , 23 were positive by real-time PCR and 22 by the conventional culture method , giving 97.5 % concordance with the ISO-IDF reference method .
This method , combining specific real-time PCR , automated DNA extraction and ISO-IDF standard enrichments , provides a useful tool for rapid screening of E. sakazakii in food and environmental matrices .
The second method used was that of cumulated amounts ( CUSUM ) [ 13 , 14 ] , non routinely used by the systems in French Guiana and used with a verification aim .
This method , commonly used for quality control in industry , has been adapted to epidemiological surveillance , and works using incidence and incidence rate .
The choice of the transition point ( s ) and the output format depend closely on one another ; regardless of this , the algorithm selects points that are consistent in their location on each distribution for any given analysis .
This method , coupled with our estimates of probability that a gene is present ( EPP values ) , should give more accurate assignments across hybridizations and strains .
We designed a method for identifying transcript sequence pairs that are putatively orthologous between the two species considered .
This method ( described in figure 3A ) is an approximation of the search for reciprocal best BLAST hits for two datasets with redundancy and that do not represent the entire transcriptome of the two species considered .
We designed a method for identifying transcript sequence pairs that are putatively orthologous between the two species considered .
This method ( described in figure 3A and in text below ) is an approximation of the search for reciprocal best BLAST hits for two datasets with redundancy and that do not represent the entire transcriptome of the two species considered .
Susceptibility testing was performed by Stokes ' method [ 9 ] on Iso-Sensitest ( Oxoid Limited , Basingstoke , UK ) agar plates .
This method , developed by Dr Joan Stokes half a century ago , was designed to monitor for both disc and agar quality in that both the clinical isolate and a control strain were tested on every plate .
A graph-clustering method based on flow simulation ( Markov chain graph clustering , MCL ) was used to identify clusters in this network that correspond to the sets of coexpressed genes .
This method , developed by van Dongen [ 58 ] , has been used previously for clustering protein sequence data [ 59 ] and for identifying modules in the yeast protein interaction network [ 60 ] .
We present a method that harnesses the statistical power provided by having several HDONAs available , which are obtained under similar conditions except for the experimental factor .
This method " harshlights " blemishes and renders them evident .
The air sampling and extraction methodology developed in this study should be applicable to the detection of rhinovirus and other airborne viruses in the indoor air of offices and schools .
This method , however , can not distinguish UV inactivated virus from infectious viral particles .
One approach to the evaluation of this natural behaviour of QT dynamics is to evaluate it over several minutes of stable narrow ranges of heart rate .
This method , however , causes loss of information regarding QT dynamics over different ranges of heart rate .
A widely used method in metabolomics is principal component analysis .
This method , however , does not take group structures into account , hindering the analysis of effects .
In the study by Blackshaw et al. [ 7 ] , the candidate photoreceptor-specific genes were selected by comparative analysis between SAGE libraries on the basis of four chosen criteria ( see Results Section ) .
This method , however , has shown relatively low true positive and true negative prediction rates .
Historically , serological analysis of allele-specific sera was used to identify the structural differences on the surface of the HLA molecules due to the nucleotide present at the site of the polymorphism .
This method , however , is limited by the availability of allele-specific sera and by its inability to discriminate between allelic subtypes within each serologic family [ 9 ] .
Another approach , proposed by Joung et al. [ 14 ] , tries to combine multiple information sources to extract the MRMs .
This method , however , relies on a genetic algorithm that undergoes several random processes .
Other approaches to the quantification of the ER and the PR described in the literature have used antibody-conjugated fluorophores and fluorescent microscopy systems [ 19 , 20 ] .
This method , however , requires users to perform specific and complex staining protocols , which may not be suitable for a busy diagnostic service .
A method here referred to as the smoother appeared in [ 9 ] .
This method , like all presented , is based on a comparison of the empirical p-value distribution to that of the uniform distribution .
Here , we propose a method that predicts nsSNPs based on the SVM [ 38 ] .
This method , named Parepro ( Predicting the amino acid replacement probability ) uses evolutionary information surrounding an nsSNP .
For this purpose , and because of concerns related to the available genotyping techniques mentioned above , we developed a novel analysis method based on classical detection of genetic variants by dideoxy fingerprinting [ 23 , 24 ] .
This method , named Quantitative Single-letter Sequencing ( QSS ) , allowed the simultaneous and accurate monitoring of six engineered allelic CaMV variants over time , determining in a single nucleic acid sample and in a single reaction process both the presence / absence and the relative frequency of each allele in the viral genome population .
Moreover , apart from its intrinsic utility , one of the other important contributions of this approach is that it was the first to be made available on-line ( ) .
This method , often referred to as BIMAS , or occasionally , COMBIFORM , by immunologists , is , for this reason , widely used .
Two related papers [ 23 , 24 ] describe a method for local structural similarity detection , which is of great relevance since it is able to evaluate the statistical significance of each match .
This method ( PINTS ) has been then used to analyze protein structures from structural genomics projects [ 25 ] .
Wang and Xu [ 46 ] overcame this limitation by designing an algorithm with a global optimization goal .
This method , recently implemented in the Hapar program [ 46 ] , was tested at its default settings on the phase-unknown NAT2 data .
Here , we propose a new and unbiased approach that is capable of inducing intermediate-scale conformational changes by continually applying a local perturbation throughout a short MD simulation .
This method , Rotamerically Induced Perturbation ( RIP ) , was inspired by a perturbation method previously developed in our lab , the Anistropic Thermal Diffusion method [ 33 ] , which was designed to probe intramolecular signaling within a protein by simulating flow patterns of kinetic energy .
Here , we propose an integrated statistical method to estimate the effective SNP size .
This method ( SNPKS ) considers both the biological significance and the statistical significance so that it avoids the problem of leading to an unreasonably large effective SNP size when only the statistical significance is considered [ 11 ] .
Yet another straightforward and popular method is to select a classification that maximizes a measure of difference between the two groups , such as the p-value of a chi square statistic [ 9 , 10 ] .
This method , sometimes called the minimum p-value approach , has been described and used for the prognosis of cancers [ 11 , 12 ] .
We developed a gene cluster classification method that circumvents these limitations and links biological function with gene expression patterns derived from microarray experiments .
This method , termed CLASSIFI , uses Gene Ontology™ annotation to identify significant co-clustering of genes with similar biological properties , based on the postulate that genes involved in the same biological process would be coordinately expressed .
The method will allow for the detection of any subjects that have probe set values that differ drastically from a mean and outside of a certain threshold ( e.g. Standard deviations from a mean ) .
This method , termed Extreme Values Analysis ( EVA ) , takes into account the complex and heterogeneous nature of psychiatric diseases .
Then , the pellet of white cells was collected ( in accordance with a previously described approach [ 7 ] ) and incubated with FITC-conjugated mouse anti-human epithelial antibody ( HEA ; Miltenyi Bergisch Gladbach , Germany ) , and live cells in suspension were applied to a poly-L-lysine treated slide , which was analyzed using a Laser Scanning Cytometer® ( Compucyte Corporation , Cambridge , MA , USA ) [ 11 ] .
This method , termed MAINTRAC® analysis , enables relocation of cells for visual examination and quantification , and for taking fluoromicrographs .
Recently , an isothermal WGA method was introduced using bacteriophage F29 DNA polymerase and random hexamer primers [ 9 , 10 ] .
This method , termed MDA ( Multiple Displacement Amplification ) , takes advantage of the bacteriophage F29 DNA polymerase , a proofreading enzyme with high fidelity and potent strand displacement activities .
Here , we present a new method for multiplex PCR that simplifies assay development and provides several technological advantages that facilitate fluorescence-based SSR genotyping and the multiplexed preparation of DNA templates for SNP detection .
This method , termed multiplex-ready PCR , combines the advantages of the M13-tailed primer method and multiplex PCR in a single step , closed tube assay .
Recently , we have introduced a new automated method for the assay of the plasma antioxidant capacity , based on the bleaching of crocin .
This method ( the TAC assay ) gives an estimation of the integrated plasma antioxidant capacity .
( ii ) The identification of consistent , steady-state metabolic and regulatory behaviors in a given , constant environment , using an extreme pathway analysis ( Covert and Palsson , 2003 ) .
This method , which essentially prunes extreme pathways that are inconsistent with the given active regulatory constraints and yields a characterization of permissible alternative solutions , is however not applicable for large-scale models , in which the enumeration of all extreme pathways is computationally intractable .
Given variation in squirrel and capuchin monkey size and , consequently , in allometric shape variation associated with those size differences , a normalization technique to scale data and remove allometric effects was applied [ 20 , 24 ] .
This method , which I will refer from now on as " Multivariate Allometric Size-Scaling ( MASS ) " , is derived from theoretical equations of allometric growth removing all the information related to size , not only scaling all individuals to the same size , but also adjusting their shape to account for allometry [ 20 ] .
The MLVA method can be applied to S. uberis genotyping and constitutes an interesting complement to existing typing methods .
This method , which is easy to perform , low cost and can be used in routine , could facilitate investigations of the epidemiology of S. uberis mastitis in dairy cows .
The most widely accepted method employs the ' constant majority ' method , which assumes that the majority of reporters do not change in ratio .
This method , which is implemented in arrayCGHbase , is generally applicable to most experiments as it is valid even in cases where up to 50 % of reporters have altered ratios , it does not require prior knowledge of which features remain constant , and allows for intensity and spatial variation .
In that paper , our pKa measurements on acetic acid in DMSO-water systems were based on the potentiometric method , using properly calibrated glass electrodes , which determine the activity of H+ , and on estimates of the activity coefficients of the acetate ion .
This method , which is well established for aqueous solutions , yielded results in good agreement with data from the literature that was based on a very different method , measurements of electrical conductivity [ 28 ] .
We extended this method for the detection , quantification , and analysis of recombination products in both male and female germ lines .
This method , which provides a sensitivity several orders of magnitude higher than pedigree analysis , allowed us to measure the recombination rate in hybrids in which no recombination can be detected from pedigrees , and therefore to address the questions of both the strain and sex-specificities of recombination activity at Psmb9 hotspot .
For genes that could not be grouped into coordinately perturbed functional classes , a further statistical assessment was performed through significance analysis of time-series data using EDGE [ 37 , 38 ] .
This method , which requires replicate time-series experiments , is based on a statistical framework and uses polynomial regression to account for the temporal nature of the data .
In contrast to the cluster and enrichment analysis techniques mentioned above , the analysis is not restricted to single differentially expressed genes ; rather , all possible gene pairs are explored for phenotype-related dependencies and interactions .
This method , which showed promising results on several datasets [ 10 ] , has the power to suggest heretofore unknown interactions between gene pairs which may have biological relevance in the phenotypes of interest .
The model investigated in this work is simulated using the Gillespie algorithm [ 28 ] , implemented as a C++ function linked to MATLAB ( The MathWorks , Inc. 2008 ) .
This method , which simulates an exact instance of the stochastic master equation , explicitly accounts for each reaction event and thus represents stochastic effects in full detail .
To date , only one method for prediction of the residue depth based on the protein sequence was developed [ 30 ] .
This method , which utilizes information encoded in the PSI-BLAST scoring matrix and a support vector regression ( SVR ) predictor [ 31 ] , was designed and tested using a large dataset of 923 chains ( YW923 ) .
An alternative approach to correct for multiple testing could be to use permutation testing and assess the distribution of a maximum test statistic or minimum P-value after repeating the entire two-stage procedure n times ( for example with n = 1,000 ) [ 74 , 75 ] .
This method , which was applied to our data , also appears conservative compared to FDR adjustment but has the advantage of being very general .
We have developed a novel method for selecting significant genes in comparative gene expression studies .
This method , which we refer to as SVM-RCE , combines K-means , a clustering method , to identify correlated gene clusters , and Support Vector Machines ( SVMs ) , a supervised machine learning classification method , to identify and score ( rank ) those gene clusters for the purpose of classification .
The most popular bioconjugation technique involves the use of a zero-length crosslinker , 1-ethyl-3- [ 3-dimethylaminopropyl ] carbodiimide hydrochloride ( EDCHCl ) [ 1-4 , 6 , 7 ] , in the presence of a hydrophilic active group , N-hydroxysulfosuccinimide ( sulfo-NHS ) [ 8 ] , for the formation of a stable amide bond between carboxylic acid-functionalized QDs ( QD-COOH ) and any biomolecules containing a primary amine [ 9 ] ( Figure 1 ) .
This method , while proven to yield exclusively QD-protein conjugates in a controlled manner , randomizes the location on a protein to which conjugation can occur , resulting in a non-selective bioconjugation [ 9 ] .
Box-Jenkins modeling , also called the Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average ( ARIMA ) method , seems promising for complementing infectious disease theories by describing the component structure ( " non explanatory " analysis ) of statistical time series .
This method , widely used in the biological sciences , has rarely been applied to infectious disease modeling , despite the fact that it seems promising for many common infections that show seasonal behaviour and random changes or trends ( non-stationary time series ) .
The second generation of SS prediction methods started by the method of Garnier , Osguthorpe and Robson ( GOR method ) [ 12 ] and improved in several steps [ 13 ] .
This method , with an information theory approach , relates sequence to SS type and evaluates the state of each residue with a sliding window approach .
The propensity score-adjusted bootstrapping method was also used to test the mean differences of costs for the 2 high level crisis event groups : patients with 2 or more crisis-event variables and patients with 3 or more crisis-event variables .
This method accommodates the distributional and correlational properties of the data [ 23 ] .
The survival analysis residual method attempts to detect a genetic effect on the age of onset of obesity / overweight .
This method accounts for cohort , sex , and age-specific risk for obesity / overweight in the sample population , by determining the cumulative incidence in the sample for a particular cohort , sex , and age .
Since this work was completed , an extension to the OCTOPUS method which incorporates signal peptide prediction , SPOCTOPUS [ 22 ] , has been released .
This method achieved 87 % accuracy on the test set , largely addressing the poor performance of OCTOPUS on sequences containing signal peptides ( column 8 ) .
In this paper , we present an algorithm to compute the representation of a metabolic network .
This method addresses a challenging problem which consists in representing simultaneously the topology and the metabolic pathway information .
Lately , Wang , et al. [ 16 ] developed an elegant algorithm , positive sample only learning ( PSoL ) , to predict non-coding RNA ( ncRNA ) genes by generating an optimized negative class of ncRNA from so-called " unlabeled " data using two-class SVM .
This method addresses predicting ncRNA genes without using negative training examples , but the procedure is quite complicated .
Two measured blood pressures were generated for each individual in the population using a previously described methodology [ 7-9 ] .
This method adjusts true blood pressure ( the survey blood pressure ) by an error term .
First described by Dekker et al. , 2002 [ 14 ] , chromosome conformation capture allows the analysis of spatial organization of chromosomes .
This method affords high resolution and specific definition of chromatin conformation .
We compared the gene lists generated by the RFE method to the result of a meta-analysis approach as described by Rhodes et al. [ 8 ] .
This method aims at identifying genes that show reproducible standardized differences in mean expression between phenotype groups across studies .
The data were analyzed using qualitative methods of content analysis and constant comparison , derived from grounded theory approach [ 11 ] .
This method aims to identify relevant themes and categories to summarize and systematize the content of the data .
[ 12 , 13 ] We felt that the Delphi procedure was the optimum method to obtain consensus on the items to be included in the tool as well as the phrasing and scoring of items .
This method allowed us to capture the views of a number of experts in the field and to reach a consensus on the final selection of items for the tool .
To test whether the interaction between Spn-F and Ik2 protein was direct and also to enable biomolecular interaction analysis of Spn-F with Ik2 , we used the multichannel ProteOn system ( Bio-Rad ) .
This method allowed us to collect kinetic data for six different concentrations of analyte at the same time [ 18 ] .
Our overall approach takes advantage of the transparency of the nematode and allows us to visualize gene expression in vivo , in real time , in a living animal .
This method allowed us to determine the temporal and spatial distribution of the expressed GFP in close to 10 % ( 1,886 ) of all genes identified in this organism .
For the instances where mediation was demonstrated ( when all four conditions were met ) , we calculated the proportion of the relationship between relationship style and match in a primary care specialty that was mediated by the specialty choice factors , using the methods of Shrout and Bolger [ 29 ] .
This method allowed us to represent the strength of the mediation on a continuum of 0 to 100 % rather than categorically as to whether mediation occurred or not .
In this report we present a technique for determining compounds toxicity on THP-1 cells .
This method allows checking many compounds simultaneously , and is therefore useful for screening processes .
The advantage of the Y1H screen compared to biochemical in vitro techniques , such as DNA affinity chromatography , or the identification of DNA binding proteins seen in electrophoretic mobility shift assays using high-resolution two-dimensional electrophoresis coupled with MS [ 11 ] , is that the procedure does not require specific optimisation of in vitro conditions .
This method allows examination of protein-DNA interactions in vivo in the conditions inside the nucleus of the eukaryotic cell .
The nonlinear minimisation function of the R-package [ 33 ] uses a Newton-type algorithm [ 34 , 35 ] .
This method allows finding a minimum of a function by numerical computation of the derivatives .
The nonlinear minimisation function of the R-package [ 14 ] uses a Newton-type algorithm [ 22 , 23 ] .
This method allows finding a minimum of a function by numerical computation of the derivatives .
A new method has been introduced recently [ 16 ] that might approach natural biocombinatorics principles much more than any earlier trial .
This method allows for an adaptation of the codon usage to a suitable expression host like Escherichia coli and the introduction of unique restriction sites flanking domains , linkers , and modules .
Another method , which will reduce the number of ambiguities in the B locus , is the utilization of a two tube group amplification approach ( DYNAL Biotech , Brown Deer , WI ) .
This method allows for resolution of ambiguities by taking into account the cis / trans allele combinations which result from simultaneous nucleotide incorporation for DNA templates being sequenced .
" Protein-trap " is a method that allows epitope-tagging of endogenous proteins .
This method allows for the identification of endogenously expressed proteins that exhibit specific localization of interest .
( 2 ) Another method uses the mean and standard deviations of the mean signal intensities of all negative control spots as a surrogate for mean and standard deviation of background intensity of each spot [ 15 ] .
This method allows for the possibility of some spot autofluorescence but does not account for local background effects .
We have established a method for the comparison of the relative fitness of L. monocytogenes strains utilising a novel , stable integrative plasmid , pIMC , based on the pPL2 phage integrase plasmid .
This method allows for the selection and discrimination of up to four isolates from complex samples , without the requirement for post-enumeration processing .
Digital karyotyping is a SAGE ( serial analysis of gene expression ) based method to enumerate genomic DNA tags [ 8 ] .
This method allows identification of specific amplifications and deletions that were not previously detected by conventional CGH or other methods .
The SW has been extensively used in DNA polymorphism studies for exploratory data analysis [ 22 ] .
This method allows obtaining a relevant parameter profile ( e.g. , nucleotide or haplotype diversity , linkage disequilibrium ) along a DNA region and , therefore , is instrumental in detecting the distinctive footprint of natural selection , mainly in genome wide-based analysis .
Final alignment among aa sequences within each group was generated with PROALIGN V0.4 ( available at [ 38 ] ) , a program implementing a method for multiple sequence alignment that combines an HMM approach , a progressive alignment algorithm , and a probabilistic evolution model describing the character substitution process [ 39 ] .
This method allows the assignment of a posterior probability to each aligned position at each node of the guide tree and has been demonstrated to perform particularly well in benchmarks comparing different approaches [ 40 ] .
In conclusion , BsaXI RFLP analysis is a simple and rapid approach for the single step determination of D310 polymorphism of mitochondrial DNA .
This method allows the evaluation of a significant proportion of samples without the need for sequencing- and/or radioactivity-based techniques .
The path analysis used structural equation modeling [ 24 ] where all 4 time-points were represented in all models tested .
This method allows the inclusion of feedback or reciprocal paths in addition to unidirectional causal effects [ 25 ] and is therefore more appropriate for our study than standard multiple regression technique .
In an attempt to better understand the importance of sucrose mobilization in this pathway , a yeast invertase was expressed in an inducible manner in growing potato tubers [ 33 ] , and the metabolite changes were monitored by a metabolite profiling approach coupling mass spectrometry to gas chromatography [ 1 ] .
This method allows the measurement of the relative concentrations of more than 60 metabolites simultaneously .
Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis ( 2-DE ) coupling MS is the most classic and well-established proteomic approach .
This method allows the separation of complex mixtures of intact proteins at high resolution .
Retrospective analysis of the data was then performed to compare the ability of a number of different subdistrict weekly incidence thresholds to detect the epidemics early .
This method allows the timeliness of detection ( relative to the epidemic peak ) , sensitivity , specificity and predictive value to be calculated for each detection method and compared .
Earlier we have proposed a simple method to carry out the restriction enzymes analysis of mammalian DNA in silico based on the known DNA sequences of eukaryotic genomes [ 11 ] .
This method allows to calculate lengths of all DNA fragments , which are formed after a whole genome digestion at recognition sites of restriction enzyme , and to construct the distribution diagrams of the calculated DNA fragments .
A third popular method is the lipid film 's hydration : a phospholipid solution in chloroform is dried under vacuum to obtain a lipid film ; this lipid film is subsequently hydrated in a solution containing the protein [ 9 , 10 ] .
This method allows to encapsulate proteins in its functional form but efficiency of encapsulation was weak .
Linkage disequilibrium ( LD ) and haplotype analysis was performed using THESIAS software based on the SEM algorithm [ 27 , 28 ] .
This method allows to estimate haplotype frequencies and haplotype effects by comparison to a reference ( the intercept ) taken here as the most frequent one .
The approach of time-frequency analysis to single EEG trials we used was developed by Makeig et al. ( 2002 ) [ 11 ] .
This method allows to identify a superimposed neural contribution in the latency range of the evoked response by computing changes in the power spectrum in comparison with the pre-event activity .
We report here a reliable automated microscopy method for quantitative measurement of myosin light chain phosphorylation in adherent cells .
This method allows us to concurrently examine cell morphology , cell-cell contact , and myosin light chain diphosphorylation in vascular smooth muscle cells .
Here we outline an analysis strategy based on fitting regression splines with step basis functions to time course data .
This method allows us to detect at which time point and hence under which oxygen tension each DosR-mediated gene was induced , providing new insights into the genetic program of DosR mediated gene regulation .
In PRAGA several genetic algorithms run in parallel and exchange individual solutions .
This method allows us to optimize an objective function that describes the quality of a RNA pairwise alignment , taking into account both primary and secondary structure , including pseudoknots .
We also evaluated the proposed method on all SAPs obtained from the Swiss-Prot , the method achieves 0.42 MCC with 73.2 % overall accuracy .
This method allows users to make reliable predictions when protein structures are not available .
We have used this method extensively to evaluate the species specificity , reproducibility and to discriminate among the three different characterised populations of teak defoliator .
This method also allowed us to comment with some certainty that the endemic teak defoliator , H. puera do not play a major role in contributing to large-scale infestations .
We have established an immunocytochemical and image analysis method by which the intracellular levels of the enzyme PGHS-1 can be monitored throughout the differentiation of megakaryoblastic cells into platelet-like structures .
This method also allowed us to simultaneously monitor the level of CD-41 a known marker of megakaryocyte differentiation .
Lown’s rationale for this approach was to minimise post-shock arrhythmia [ 18 ] .
This method also allows cardioversion at the lowest energy for each individual patient and may prevent high cumulative doses in some .
Table 3 summarized the results of predictions obtained in this way , using a leave-one-out method .
This method also allows us to compute the standard errors in the prediction scores .
We also expected that CIs based on the GEE estimator of location would be narrower than the Zlr-bootstrap CIs because the GEE method jointly models the IBD sharing pattern at all markers .
This method also assumes that there is exactly one disease gene located within the chromosome , which may improve performance when , as in the GAW14 data , this assumption is satisfied .
A highly accurate method has been developed for predicting subcellular location of mycobacterial proteins .
This method also predicts very important class of proteins that is membrane-attached proteins .
The set association approach manages the dimensionality problem by reducing the number of markers to a smaller number of important markers .
This method also provides an overall significance level for the selected markers .
HMM-B2TMR , is a profile-based HMM method , that was trained for the first time on a non-redundant set of 12 outer membrane proteins [ 17 ] and later ( current version ) on a larger dataset of 15 outer membrane proteins [ 55 ] .
This method also uses as input profiles derived from PSI-BLAST .
The relative performance of the four IBDQ dimensions in distinguishing best patients with minor symptoms from those with severe , was studied by discriminant analysis .
This method also was applied stepwise ( backward elimination ) [ 34 ] .
Recently , a method for unique oligo discovery that was a modification of a central pattern partitioning principle was published [ 17 ] .
This method analyzed 17 complete genomes representing a wide range of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms .
Limma is a statistical method which can be used to identify differentially expressed genes in complex microarray experiments .
This method analyzes each gene using a linear regression model .
He described how this approach led to the assembly of the genome of a virtual organism , suggested to be a free-living Gram-negative bacterium , with a 2.25 megabase ( Mb ) genome containing two rRNAs and 45 tRNAs .
This method appears to be a promising way of assembling large genomic regions from organisms that can not be cultured .
Both PCA and fractal analysis of the FFT data could discriminate successfully between the fracture and control groups , although PCA was significantly stronger than fractal dimension .
This method appears to provide a powerful tool for the assessment of bone structure in vivo with advantages over standard fractal methods .
In a previous study , we identified motifs associated with life span extension in sch9? , ras2? , and tor1? using a cut-off based method [ 29 ] .
This method applied the Fisher 's exact test to examine the enrichment of each motif in the up- and down-regulated gene sets from sch9? / wt , ras2? / wt , and tor1? / wt. Although the selection of cutoff is generally not trivial , in this case the cut-off based method and the BASE method achieve similar results .
Finally , PROQRES is the only method in this set , which has been developed specifically to predict local errors in crude protein models .
This method applies a neural network to estimate local structure from : atom-atom contacts , residue-residue contacts , secondary structure context , and solvent accessibility [ 11 ] .
In order to separate the effect of the method from the procedure to impute the missing values , we repeated the analysis both by filtering out all the genes with missing observations and by using the KNN method to impute them .
This method applies the novel multivariate empirical Bayes approach described in Tai et al. [ 16 ] to rank genes in the order of interest from longitudinal replicated microarray time course experiments .
However , the rigorous tableau searching method is too slow for a full database search , and so Konagurthu et al. [ 18 ] introduce TableauSearch .
This method approximates the exact solution using an alignment-like approach [ 23 ] , with two phases of dynamic programming .
Our method [ 17 , 25 ] measures the change in forearm blood flow using venous occlusion plethysmography following the local , intra-arterial infusion of vasoactive substances .
This method assesses resistance vessel function .
Randomisation took place using stratified randomisation , in particular the minimisation method described by Pocock [ 19 ] .
This method assigned the two treatments taking into account the recruiting hospital and possible previous experiences with UV phototherapy .
The multifactor-dimensionality reduction ( MDR ) method [ 2 ] was developed specifically to detect higher-order interactions among polymorphisms even when the marginal effects are very small .
This method assumes a dichotomous trait .
We demonstrate the utility of this method on four examples comprised of one non-coding data set and three coding data sets .
This method assumes a single genealogy describes the evolutionary history of the sequences under study , but makes no assumptions about ancestral mutation frequencies and takes into account the confounding effects of demographic history .
Structure 2.2 ( http : / / pritch.bsd.uchicago.edu / structure.html ) was used to detect cryptic population structure using the model-based approach of Pritchard et al. [ 34 ] .
This method assumes LD within subpopulations , so the full set of autosomal markers were thinned to a set of 752 in which no two markers were closer than 2 Mb apart ( the distance at which there is very little LD ) .
One proposed approach is to find the maximum likelihood estimate for the scale of the variance for each print-tip group [ 16 ] .
This method assumes that all log2-ratios from the kth print-tip group follow a normal distribution with mean zero and variance s2 , where s2 is the variance of the true log2-ratios and is the estimated scale factor for the kth print-tip group .
Phylogenetic relationships among proteins were estimated using a maximum likelihood analysis of amino acid sequences with the Jones-Taylor-Thornton probability model of amino acid changes [ 55 ] .
This method assumes that taxa evolve independently , that each amino acid position evolves independently and that substitutions at each amino acid site occur with a probability specified in the PAM 250 matrix .
For that , in the here-illustrated example , we applied the method of Singular Value Decomposition ( SVD ) , the equivalent of principal components analysis .
This method assumes that the extracted factors are uncorrelated and orders the factors according to percentage explained variation ( successive factors account for less and less variation overall ) .
We compute the q-values using the following algorithm , based on Storey and Tibshirani [ 21 ] .
This method assumes that the p-values of truly null tests are uniformly distributed , assumption that holds for the methods used in Metastats .
In the 2003-2004 survey , a pool of about 45,000 telephone numbers from complete listings of conventional telephone extensions belonging to private households in Germany was randomly generated , applying the Häder-Gabler method [ 29 ] .
This method assures that households with unregistered telephone extensions are included in the ' target sample ' of telephone surveys .
In consultation with the executive members of these associations , all 4,045 names of the members of the associations were obtained through stratified sampling and a probability sampling method was used to select 600 respondents for the questionnaire survey .
This method assures that the sample is fairly representative of the membership of the associations of Ghanaian immigrants in the GTA in terms of age , sex , ethnic background , income level , educational level , number of years in Canada , religion , place of birth and religion .
We then used the noninvasive technique of fluorescence microscopy on intact , living leaf tissue as an independent approach to confirm the localization of N and p50-U1 .
This method avoids the tissue disruption and possible introduction of artifacts that could have occurred during preparation of protein extracts used in our biochemical cell fractionation .
For this purpose , we chose to apply the " nearest shrunken centroid " algorithm , as proposed by Tibshirani et al [ 17 , 20 ]. , utilized by taking advantage of the publicly available PAM software package [ 19 , 20 ] .
This method basically derives from the " nearest centroid " classification .
In summary , the control method is essentially a restriction to STEPS 1 and 2 of our identification method ( see Results section ) .
This method bears some resemblance to and can be considered an extension of a protocol recently described by Pan and co-workers [ 45 ] , designed to find conserved AS events between human and other species .
The direct digital transfer is - with respect to workflow integration and image quality - obviously the most attractive method and is the preferred way in the context of the establishment of PACS .
This method becomes even more relevant , because the number of images per case is increasing continuously due to sophisticated radiological techniques .
We propose an Interaction-Identifier method to identify the candidate form of interaction among the TFs and RNA polymerase ( RNAP ) on the promoter of a target gene .
This method begins by using a thermodynamic function , termed regulation factor , to predict the equilibrium probability that RNAP binds to the promoter of its targeted gene ( PRNAP ) based on concentrations of associated TFs and interaction forms among TFs and RNAP .
Another approach is to employ comparative sequence analysis .
This method benefits from the vast collection of sequences from diverse organisms and high sensitivity of database search and protein sequence alignment .
Tackling these difficulties , we utilize a novel approach for quantitative rigorous multiple-knockouts analysis , the Multiple-perturbations Shapley value Analysis ( MSA , See Methods ) , a methodology introduced at [ 13 ] .
This method borrows fundamental concepts and analytical approaches from the field of Game Theory , which have already been used in many diverse fields [ 14-17 ] .
We also tested a third described method for cell lysis , which is grinding deep-frozen cells with a mortar [ 20-22 ] .
This method breaks cells mechanically while keeping proteins and nucleic acids intact due to the lack of enzymatic activity at ultra-low breaking temperatures .
We have proposed a new method to analyze the protein-protein interaction network grounded on the combination of a clustering algorithm of the vertices and a refined method allowing to assign a function to proteins of yet unknown function .
This method builds classes of proteins which appear to be involved in the same or related biological process ( es ) .
A third approach is to use Bayesian statistics to infer divergence times .
This method builds on information provided by the investigator about phylogenetic relationships and divergence times ( called the ' prior ' ) to calculate a refined estimate of the variables to be assessed ( the ' posterior ' ) , given both the sequence data available and an explicit model of evolution [ 15 , 31 ] .
The temporal method BDL was used to test specific hypotheses of diversification rate shifts [ 39 , 53 ] .
This method calculates maximum likelihood estimates of speciation rate parameters and a likelihood score per tree .
A suitable algorithm was previously utilized [ 9-11 ] but not described in detail .
This method calculates the fraction of individuals predicted to respond to a given epitope or epitope set on the basis of HLA genotypic frequencies and on the basis of MHC binding and/or T cell restriction data .
Previously we developed a method to predict CRMs based on TF interactions [ 11 ] .
This method calculates the interaction strength between two TF binding sites and then derives an empirical " potential energy " for each TF binding site .
To calculate the costs of production loss due to sick leave , we used the friction-costs method [ 33 ] .
This method calculates the loss of production until the vacancy because of sick leave is resolved .
Since the latter method allows for direct computation of the thresholds for all traits , whereas the simulation required significant computing time for each trait , we used the thresholds obtained using the effective number of markers .
This method calculates the number of independent tests in a genome or chromosome scan and uses the " effective number of markers " in a Bonferonni correction .
The temporal method allows to estimate the effective population size through the analysis of the variation in the allele frequencies of temporally spaced samples of a given population [ 41 ] .
This method calculates the standardized variance in the temporal changes of allele frequency F , which is reciprocally proportional to the effective population size .
Our whole-genome approach will prove particularly helpful when elucidating mechanisms of drug resistance in vitro or in clinical isolates of P. falciparum , as demonstrated by the identification of pfdxr amplification in fosmidomycin resistance .
This method can also be applied to screening populations of P. falciparum and tracking the spread of drug resistance , to discover the genetic basis of other phenotypic changes , and to address more fundamental questions in P. falciparum biology , such as the basal rates of point mutations and CNVs in laboratory culture .
The most recent studies considered the number of patient-days according to the method described by Rosendaal [ 15 , 16 , 21 ] .
This method can also be used to calculate the rate of haemorrhagic events as a function of the number of patient-days for a given range of INR values .
Complementary to any other disease gene and SNP association study , this approach can help to prioritize the genes that need to be validated and further help to elucidate the genetic contribution to the development of cancer .
This method can also help to identify new genes or SNPs that might be crucial to tumor development .
The classical optimization method ( single variable optimization ) is not only time-consuming and tedious but also does not depict the complete effects of the parameters in the process and ignores the combined interactions between physicochemical parameters .
This method can also lead to misinterpretation of results [ 10 ] and [ 11 ] .
Chan et al. used a non-alignment based method ( FastCompare ) to identify conserved k-mers in worm and fly [ 24 , 31 ] .
This method can avoid the problem of misaligning homologous sequences .
To synthesize these approaches , we explore sensitivity landscapes , which provide a global picture of parameter sensitivities while identifying how intrinsic properties of individual neurons influence their firing patterns .
This method can be adapted easily to compare sensitivities of parameters in any computational model .
An advantage of our proposed method relative to testing procedures based on genotypic data is that only p-value data are needed .
This method can be adapted extensively to different study designs and testing procedures if reliable p-values are provided .
We have developed a drug target prediction method based solely on protein sequence information without the knowledge of family / domain annotation , or the protein 3D structure .
This method can be applied in novel drug target identification and validation , as well as genome scale drug target predictions .
I will start by describing the steps to implement the method before explaining how to derive those steps .
This method can be applied starting from two different situations : starting from a N × N set of joint probabilities at a generating time that need to be extended to allow indel characters and evolved with time ; or starting from a given N × N rate matrix that needs to be extended to allow indel characters .
We have developed a Bayesian network approach to find regulatory rules enriched in a foreground sequences , for example the promoters of a set of co-regulated genes , compared with the background sequences .
This method can be applied to any genome as we showed its success in yeast and human here .
Unlike many existing methods , our proposed method is simple and effective .
This method can be applied to identify splice sites in a large scale in newly sequenced genomes .
Further comparative analysis identified coordinated mutations of specific residues at the predicted interfaces .
This method can be applied to predict interaction details for any protein pair as long as the proteins in the pair are associated with DNA during the interaction .
In any case , when the inter-SNP distance is small ( < 1 cM ) , one can employ the MILC method to take care of recombination , and then single-point linkage analysis has more power .
This method can be applied to real data to construct composite markers .
I described an algorithm which addresses the evolution of gaps as an extra residue in a ( N + 1 ) × ( N + 1 ) substitution matrix .
This method can be applied to the joint emission probabilities of pair models .
A method is described which permits the calculation of a general similarity measure , the n-gram score , without having to reveal the data being compared , albeit at some cost in computation and data communication .
This method can be combined with public key cryptography and automatic estimation of linkage model parameters to create an overall system for blindfolded record linkage .
We used the results of these studies to show that mutual information analysis is highly effective for identifying systematic differences between sets of sequences .
This method can be extended to the study of other pathogens , and of properties other than the host range .
With the long-term aim of setting up a screening method to identify novel regulatory cis-acting sequence elements and the associated multimeric complexes , we have evaluated the use of uv-crosslinking .
This method can be miniaturised and time saving procedures have been described [ 17 ] that should allow its application in a high-throughput protocol .
The extension of the training set based on the co-author graph and synonym lists is one step closer to the " classical " context-based approaches - namely looking for gene names in the text of the abstracts .
This method can be regarded as a generalization of the one in [ 13 ] because we search co-authored documents as well , but it is less sophisticated those described in [ 12 ] and [ 14 ] , both of which use external general MeSH term indexing software .
We propose a method for an integrated study of survival time and gene expression .
This method can be summarized as a two-step procedure : in the first step , a moderate number of genes are pre-selected using correlation or liquid association ( LA ) .
Postoperatively , the technique may allow further graft monitoring as a more sensitive adjunct to clinical monitoring to detect early graft failure .
This method can be used in accessible sites to view the mucosal surface of the graft ; the technique may be modified to utilise a surgical window on the anterior cervical flap and directly visualise the blood flow through the serosal capillaries .
Detailed analysis of the predicted drug targets with examples proves the effectiveness and predictive power of the model built .
This method can be used in novel drug target identification and validation at large scale .
The first approach allowed us to prioritize nine " candidate " SNP-SNP interactions that were consistently selected by the stepwise procedure across the bootstrap samples ( i.e. in more than 30 % of the 1,000 random samples ) and that were significant based on the age adjusted bootstrap P-values .
This method can be used to assess the variability of our model selection but does not control formally for the multiple testing problem .
Therefore we developed a method that relates variations in kinetic parameters to differences in protein structures .
This method can be used to check the consistency of kinetic measurements described in the literature with available protein structural data as well as to make estimates of kinetic parameters based on enzyme structures and kinetic parameters for related enzymes .
The iterative clustering method offers considerable improvement over clustering in all genes .
This method can be used to discover partitions and their biological significance can be determined by comparing with clinical correlates and gene annotations .
By capitalizing on the ease , sensitivity and reproducibility of SELDI-TOF-MS , a novel non-radioactive , mass spectrometry-based method has been developed to study phosphorylation events .
This method can be used to elucidate the signaling activity of a specific kinase in vivo , and is limited only by the specificity of the kinase for its substrate peptides [ 27 ] .
We have developed a computational method to estimate the pre-miRNA content and to predict the location of precursor miRNAs in genomic sequences .
This method can be used to guide experiments to find both miRNAs that are evolutionarily conserved as well as species-specific miRNAs such as those known now to exist in viruses .
The jerboas were decapitated and the livers ( 75 g total ) were rapidly removed for mitochondria purification according to the technique described by Fleischer et al. [ 41 ] and as previously used by Mountassif et al. [ 42 ] .
This method can be used to prepare high-yield mitochondria .
The Negative Subtraction Hybridization method described here has several practical benefits .
This method can be used to screen any existing cDNA library , including full-length and pooled libraries , and does not rely on PCR or sequence information .
Here , we demonstrate how the use of SQUAD helps to simulate the behavior of regulatory networks , modeled with the standardized qualitative dynamical systems methodology .
This method can be used to study signaling or regulatory networks where there is little or no kinetic data available , but there is a good knowledge of the network topology .
To date , most investigations of electrical impedance of acupuncture points or meridians have used a two-electrode method , i.e. , the two electrodes used to introduce an electrical current were also connected to a voltmeter to measure the voltage between the two electrodes [ 1-4 , 6-8 , 10 , 11 , 14 , 15 ] .
This method can cause significant fluctuation of voltage between the two electrodes due to variable contact impedance between electrodes and tissue .
Although one approach typically used to quantify motility when utilizing the phagokinetic assay is to report a total area cleared , we feel that reporting the area cleared per cell is more representative of cell motility than reporting total area cleared , as this quantity will not be confounded by cell division .
This method can complement existing assays of cell motility .
Currently , the most reliable method for the study of miRNA expression is Northern blot analysis with polyacrylamide gels .
This method can distinguish pre-miRNA and miRNA at the same time , although the technique is relatively insensitive owing to the large total RNA volume needed , and it is labor-intensive .
Stepanova et al [ 25 ] developed a method which can be used for the prediction of hormone-response elements ( HRE ) de novo .
This method can handle large groups of transcription factor binding sites .
For example , Wang and Rannala [ 23 ] used an additive selection model and a forward approach with a normal approximation to the binomial selection process .
This method can handle one DSL and arbitrary demographic models .
Recently , Franke et al. [ 73 ] developed a Bayesian approach to reconstruct a functional human gene network that integrates information on genes and the functional relationships between them , based on data from multiple sources ( the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes , the Biomolecular Interaction Network Database , and so on ) .
This method can help ' prioritize ' , in a first-stage analysis , candidate genes and gene-gene interactions associated with a specific disease , which could then be validated in an independent sample using the partitioning methods studied in our paper .
One method for translating clinical questions into accurate queries is the PICO method .
This method can help to build adequate queries regarding patient-related problems [ 5 , 6 , 24 , 25 ] .
In order to explore the plasticity of the Mic-PCC7806 genome further , the number of CDSs with an atypical dinucleotide composition was determined using a one-order Markov chain-based methodology [ 25 ] .
This method can identify genes that may have been acquired recently by lateral transfers .
Detection of unknown variants in heterozygous samples depends upon fluorimetric analysis of signal intensity based on the principle that homozygous samples generate twice the amount of signal .
This method can identify unknown SNP in heterozygous conditions with a sensitivity of 82 % and specificity of 90 % .
Detection of unknown variants in heterozygous samples depends upon fluorimetric analysis of signal intensity based on the principle that homozygous samples generate twice the amount of signal .
This method can identify unknown SNP in heterozygous conditions with a sensitivity of 82 % and specificity of 90 % .
In summary , this analysis confirms the relevance of several aspects of gene expression control and genetic linkage as predictors of synteny conservation in yeast .
This method can not , however , really quantify the relative importance of each of them , so it is this we describe next .
Such a technique , which makes use of high-fluence ultrashort pulses of light that can precisely ablate tissue [ 48 ] , has been demonstrated to work with vessels in superficial cortical layers [ 49 ] .
This method can not , in turn , be used to target clots in the surface communicating arteriole network , as the lack of containment by parenchymal tissue causes irradiated vessels to burst .
Because stem cells are targeted by the amniotic fluid , in utero delivery method , the specific inhibition of C-MYC in a relative small population of cells ( < 107 ) has a highly significant effect on the histology of the rapidly developing lungs and intestines .
This method can not be used to affect a specific subset of cells within the lung , because the development of the fetal immune response interferes with treatment at later times when these cell populations have differentiated from the multipotential cells present at 15-16 days gestation .
Helden et al. [ 11 ] propose a method for dyad analysis , which exhaustively counts the number of occurrences of each possible pair of patterns in the sequences and then assesses their statistical significance .
This method can only deal with fixed number of gaps between the two components .
Matthew Dimmic ( University of Copenhagen , Denmark ) introduced a Bayesian phylogenetic approach for the detection of coevolving amino-acid residues in protein families .
This method can provide information about interacting sites on proteins : when it was applied to eukaryotic phosphoglycerate kinase family proteins , interdomain site contacts were found to have coevolved significantly more frequently than non-contact sites .
In this work , we have developed a theoretical approach to estimate allele frequency in pooled DNA samples , based on the physical principles of DNA immobilization and hybridization on solid surface using the Langmuir kinetic model and quantitative analysis of the allelic signals .
This method can successfully distinguish allele frequencies differing by 0.01 in the actual pool of clinical samples , and detect alleles with a frequency as low as 2 % .
To investigate the functional relationship between individual modules and stress response , we used the singular value decomposition method as developed by Alter et al. [ 29 ] and applied by Oldham et al. and Horvath et al. [ 19 , 30 ] .
This method characterizes the expression of each module by its first principle component- eigengene value .
Operons of mycobacterial genomes were predicted using methods described by Alm et al. [ 38 ] .
This method combines a comparative genomic approach with genome-specific distance models , and has shown some improvements in operon prediction [ 39 ] .
One alternative method which has been recommended for country wide prevalence estimates is the Multiple Indicator Method ( MIM ) [ 6 ] .
This method combines information on prevalence that is available only in a few areas ( the ' anchor points ' ) and drug indicators ( e.g. number of crimes , seizures ) that are available in all areas [ 7 ] .
We describe a new method for identifying outliers when fitting data with nonlinear regression .
This method combines robust regression and outlier removal , and so we call it the ROUT method .
We have developed a feature selection method named Supervised Recursive Feature Addition ( SRFA ) .
This method combines supervised learning and statistical measures for the chosen candidate features / SNPs to reconcile the redundancy information and , in doing so , improve the classification performance in association studies .
It uses a simple grid-based method and separates the probe size used to define voids from the probe size used to define channels to the surface .
This method combines the analysis of individual discrete voids with that of packing quality and can be applied to the calculation of total void volume , maximum void size , and number of voids .
Jan Vijg ( University of Texas Health Science Center , USA ) illustrated the utility of one such technique - two-dimensional gene scanning ( TDGS ) .
This method combines the high accuracy of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis with high throughput from extensive PCR multiplexing .
We estimated the recombination rate at each TE insertion site method using a method previously developed for the D. melanogaster genome [ 54 ] .
This method combines the known physical and genetic distances between D. melanogaster genes to estimate the recombination rate profile of each chromosome as a second-degree polynomial function .
Based on the ECD coordinates and orientations obtained in the control condition , the method of source space projection was applied to the averaged magnetic field of each condition .
This method combines the magnetic field waveforms obtained from each sensor weighted by the sensitivity of each sensor for a source at the specified location into a single waveform of the dipole moment .
The bicinchoninic acid ( BCA ) assay is a biochemical assay for determining the total level of protein in a solution using colorimetric techniques [ 13 ] .
This method combines the reduction of the Cu2+ to Cu+ by proteins in an alkaline medium with the highly sensitive and selective colorimetric detection of the Cu+ using a BCA containing reagent [ 14 ] .
The increase in MKDT with the amount of insecticide washed out was followed by chemical analysis .
This method compared the initial concentration of insecticide in the net with that left after one to 20 washes .
The results of amplification were analyzed by the comparative threshold cycle method , also known as the 2-??Ct method [ 60 ] .
This method compares , for each time-point considered , the Ct values of the samples of interest ( CtI ) with the appropriate calibrator ( CtM ) .
We used the ' fossil cross-validation ' method to measure the agreement between these different calibration points [ 17 ] .
This method compares the difference between the fossil and molecular ages by rerunning the PL analysis with single calibration nodes .
We used the approach of Machado et al. [ 44 ] to distinguish between ongoing gene flow and recent divergence among the Cameroon populations .
This method compares the difference in LD between all shared polymorphisms ( DSS ) between two populations and the LD from pairs of nucleotide sites that are shared between populations and exclusive to one reference population ( DSX ) .
WBP is the most commonly used algorithm for reconstruction in ET .
This method compensates for overemphasis of low frequencies in Fourier space by using a weighting scheme prior to reconstruction .
The method is available in the limma software package which is implemented in the R software environment .
This method complements existing normalisation and spot quality procedures , and allows poorer quality arrays , which would otherwise be discarded , to be included in an analysis .
Furthermore , each event was checked using a second method in the RDP package , SISCAN ( SSC , [ 85 ] ) .
This method conducts a sliding window analysis with a phylogenetic criterion , calculating a p-value through sequence permutation .
Thirteen transcripts met this selection criterion ; six were further tested by quantitative RT-PCR analysis of 62 additional samples from this trial and a second SU5416 Phase III trial of similar design .
This method confirmed four of these transcripts ( CD24 , lactoferrin , lipocalin 2 , and MMP-9 ) as potential biomarkers of drug treatment .
Therefore , to evaluate the performance of various methods , we used a different method pioneered by Nye and colleagues [ 2 , 25 , 38 ] .
This method considers only those interacting protein pairs that contain an iPfam domain pair as a possible explanation .
Another alignment algorithm assumes no knowledge of peaks in common [ 20 , 21 ] .
This method considers the shape of the spectra , and aims to minimize the phase differences between the spectra .
The ' Markov chain discrimination ' ( MCD ) method is our implementation of the ' PFRSampler ' algorithm of Grad et al. [ 16 ] .
This method considers the word frequency distribution in the given set of candidate CRMs and a set of background sequences , and uses a Markov chain approach to discriminate between the two .
Qualitative content analysis elicits contextual meaning in context through the development of emerging themes .
This method consisted of identifying , coding and summarizing the concepts and themes , consistent with established qualitative data analysis methods [ 20 ] .
Stimson [ 1 ] originally described his ' hanging arm ' technique for reducing shoulder dislocations .
This method consisted of the patient lying prone in a canvas cot , with the affected arm hanging through a hole in the canvas .
The first and oldest method , proposed by Lipman and Pearson [ 10 ] and described extensively by Comet et al. [ 11 ] and others [ 12-14 ] , uses Monte Carlo simulations to investigate the significance of a score , s calculated from the alignment of two real sequences a and b .
This method consists in computing ? alignments of a with sequences obtained after shuffling b [ 15 ] .
Among the diverse methods that have been proposed for dealing with multigene data sets is the so-called supermatrix method [ 2 ] .
This method consists in concatenating the sequences of all available genes into one single " supergene " , which is then subjected to standard phylogenetic reconstruction methods .
We propose a method , called MetaViz , which enables to draw a genome-scale metabolic network and that also takes into account its structuration into pathways .
This method consists in two steps : a clustering step which addresses the pathway overlapping problem and a drawing step which consists in drawing the clustered graph and each cluster .
We propose a multiple clustering method to perform the clustering .
This method consists of multiple steps .
A novel approach to increase T cell responses to vaccination is the heterologous prime-boost immunization strategy [ 21 ] .
This method consists of priming and boosting with different vectors encoding the same antigen .
An Integer Linear Programming method has been proposed in [ 9 ] to reduce the number of probes in the greedy design .
This method consists of two ILP formulations .
Breiman et al. developed a decision tree ( DT ) model , which uses a variant of the classification and regression tree ( CART ) method .
This method consists of two steps : 1 ) tree construction and 2 ) tree pruning [ 18 , 19 ] .
Using the attached spreadsheets and instructions , a simple post-acquisition method for analysing bivariate flow cytometry data is provided .
This method constitutes a straightforward improvement over the standard graphical output of flow cytometric data and has the significant advantage that ligand binding can be compared between cell populations irrespective of receptor expression levels .
The parameter values determined at convergence of the distance function were then seeded into a subsequent quasi-Newton minimization method with box constraints [ 25 ] .
This method constrains the parameter values to a specified range in the minimization of the distance function .
We propose an alternative baseline correction method based on a penalized smoothing model .
This method constructs the baseline by maximizing a score function ( eq 2 ) that evaluates how well the baseline fits the spectrum .
The original comparative approach , which is still widely used , is modelling by rigid-body assembly [ 4 ] .
This method constructs the model from a few regions which are obtained from dissecting related structures .
The case-crossover approach consists in a case-control study whereby each person who had an event is matched with him- or herself on a nearby time period in which that individual did not have the event .
This method controls for temperature by matching .
For their single-tree approach , Cummings and Myers provided the raw numbers of correctly and incorrectly classified edited and unedited positions , making it possible to calculate specificity and sensitivity in the same way as for PREP-Mt .
This method correctly classified 1,262 out of 1,347 known editing sites ( sensitivity = 93.7 % ) , but only 637 out of 1,347 known unedited sites ( specificity = 47.3 % ) .
Evans blue in the plasma and lung tissue was quantitated by dual-wavelength spectrophotometric analysis at 620 and 740 nm [ 43 ] .
This method corrects the specimen 's absorbance at 620 nm for the absorbance of contaminating heme pigments , using the following formula : corrected absorbance at 620 nm = actual absorbance at 620 nm - ( 1.426 ( absorbance at 740 ) + 0.03 ) .
We also proposed a submatrix imputation method to determine whether to use integrative imputation with a given collection of reference datasets .
This method could as well be used to select the appropriate algorithm for imputing a given dataset , which would be very useful as many imputation algorithms exist and there is no absolute best one for all circumstances .
Our approach provides an easy route to the characterization of UBA domain binding proteins at the level of the whole proteome , its application will unfold the important roles that p62’s UBA domain plays .
This method could be easily adapted to identify proteins that interact with other UBA domains as well .
The present study proposes an original method to study phosphorylation of proteins in complex , heterogeneous , cell populations such as unseparated PBMCs .
This method could be further validated to be applied to whole blood samples obtained from patients presenting with inflammatory diseases , for example , where there is a need to study cellular events [ 31 ] .
We developed a method to detect sequence motifs corresponding to putative regulatory elements in gene promoters , starting from lists of approximate patterns with occurrences in promoter sequences .
This method could be profitably applied to different datasets , including promoter sequences of different groups of genes in humans or in other Eukaryotes , for which co-regulation could be demonstrated or inferred .
In this paper , we present a computational improvement to a sequence clustering method that we introduced previously to analyze large microbial metagenomic datasets , and that was used in the GOS study [ 9 ] .
This method could be used both to identify protein-coding genes in metagenomic data containing prokaryotic , viral and intron-less eukaryotic genomes , and to group related sequences into families ( based on matches to the full sequence ) .
The strength of this study was the creation and analysis of a database of a large cohort of women and infants that has previously gone unstudied .
This method could be used in other states to evaluate the birth outcomes among undocumented women and to evaluate the impact of interventions to improve access and pregnancy management .
To this end , it would be ideal to search the entire genome to provide a comprehensive analysis of the entire E ( CG ) fly RiBi regulon .
This method could identify novel fly RiBi genes harboring E ( CG ) sites independent of a 1-to-1 orthology and ambiguous annotations of transcriptional initiation sites .
Finally , to visualize the effect of a transition , the time series analysis was carried out using locally weighted regression , applying a decomposition procedure based on loess [ 11 ] .
This method decomposes time series in three ( trend , 24-hour , and the remainder ) components using a sequence of smoothing operations , and is robust in detecting both trends and circadian variations .
For the comparison of statistical nucleotide sequence properties of CDSs among viruses and their hosts , we used the method proposed by Sandberg et al. [ 30 ] .
This method defines a genomic signature as a set of frequencies of all overlapping oligonucleotides of specific length k ( k = 4 in this study ) in the forward strand of the whole nucleotide sequences available for a given genome .
Differentially expressed genes were defined as the extreme outliers in each experiment , using an intensity-dependent strategy modified from the HT-self method [ 133 ] and described in [ 34 ] .
This method defines an intensity-dependent cutoff curve using the data from each hybridization , detecting non-parametrically genes with the greatest log-ratio changes ( outliers ) regardless of the absolute value of the log-ratio measurement .
We presented a method for finding relationships between the expression of a gene and that of a known pathway , that are changed across phenotypes .
This method defines the expression of a known pathway via a summary value based on principal component analysis .
A simple approach to detect deleted genes is to average probe values across each gene and select genes with unusually low relative hybridization values [ 3 ] .
This method defines the units-of-interest as entire genes and does not attempt to identify variable regions that lie outside of genes or only partially span gene boundaries .
In order to assess the branching of chætognaths and to stress the usefulness of RP genes for phylogenomics , a RP dataset was assembled using the composite dataset approach [ 18 ] .
This method depends on the selection of the least diverging copy of each marker gene in each taxon , such as a phylum , and thus allows reduction of the branch lengths of composite taxa ( Table S1 in Additional data file 2 ) .
HaploStats expands on the likelihood approach to account for ambiguity in case-control studies by using a generalized linear model to test for haplotype association , which allows for adjustment of nongenetic covariates [ 70 ] .
This method derives a score statistic to test the null hypothesis of no association of the trait with the genotype .
To control for the possibility of spurious associations resulting from population stratification we used the EIGENSTRAT approach of Price et al [ 57 ] .
This method derives the principal components of the correlations among gene variants and corrects for those correlations in the association tests .
The only partially pan-specific HLA-DR prediction algorithm publicly available is the TEPITOPE method [ 27 ] .
This method describes binding of peptides to 50 HLA-DR molecules .
The Principal Component Analysis ( PCA ) [ 51 , 52 ] technique was used to summarize and discover patterns of inter-correlations among the studied measures .
This method describes the variation of a set of correlated variables in terms of a set of uncorrelated combinations , called principal components .
A second and more powerful method to detect selection was also applied .
This method detects elevated dN / dS ratios ( ? ratios ) using maximum likelihood approaches ( see Yang 2007 ) and is less conservative than the McDonald-Kreitman test .
The association method tests whether variation in a gene is correlated with an outcome ( e.g. PTSD ) .
This method detects genes of small effect and , until the recent development of genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) , had been the method of choice for molecular genetic studies of complex disorders .
Association rules discovery technique ( ARD ) is a data mining method that has been extensively used in many applications to discover associations among subsets of items from large transaction databases .
This method detects sets of elements that frequently co-occur in a database and establish relationships between them of the form of X ? Y , which means that when X occurs it is likely that Y also occurs .
Automics implements a fuzzy wrapping method [ 28 ] .
This method detects the maximal position of peaks in each spectrum and aligns them to a reference spectrum using their similarity determined using a fuzzy Gaussian function .
Cerebrum samples were also taken for capillary depletion analysis by dextran density centrifugation as previously reported [ 25 ] .
This method determines if a drug has actually crossed the BBB as it examines drug accumulation by the cerebral capillary endothelial cells and ensures any drug accumulation in the brain is not just a consequence of drug being trapped within the cerebral capillary endothelium .
To calculate the relative expression ratio , the 2-??Ct ( RQ , relative quantification ) method implemented in the 7500 Real Time PCR System software [ 49 ] was used .
This method determines the change in expression of a nucleic acid sequence ( target ) in a test sample relative to the same sequence in a calibrator sample .
More recently , other methods have become available , such as the " Assumption-free analysis " [ 36 ] .
This method determines the efficiency of each PCR reaction by calculating the slope for the exponential part of the curve .
We have shown that a multi-way method can be used to analyze differences in the amino acid composition within and between species .
This method determines the relative influence of the various factors behind the heterogeneity of amino acid composition in proteins .
A modified FBA method with minimization of the 1-norm objective function between two optimal flux distributions was used to determine optimal intracellular fluxes based on the EM-constrained metabolic models .
This method determines two optimal flux distributions simultaneously for two differently constrained models ( e.g. wild type vs. mutant ) - these flux distributions maximize biomass production in each case and the 1-norm distance between the distributions is as small as possible given the two sets of constraints .
The algorithm first locates local cliques , complete subgraphs in which any two vertices are connected by an edge , for each graph vertex ( a vertex represents a protein ) , and then merges the detected local cliques according to their affinity to form maximal dense neighborhoods .
This method differs from others in basing the predictions on dense neighborhoods rather than on cliques .
The reference methods FASTA and BLAST give quite different results : FASTA is a good second and BLAST has scores similar to Paracel and Biofacet .
This method differs from the ROC analysis on one crucial point : instead of looking at the first 100 hits , we varied the threshold at which a hit was seen as a positive .
The algorithm uses Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods to select at random a value from the distribution of the possible values predicted by the missing value model .
This method differs in several respects from other methods of filling in for missing data , in that with each imputation a different value will be imputed for the missing value , thus ensuring an added dimension of variability in the resulting analyses .
Finally , Sandelin and Wasserman [ 15 ] used their own column comparison function ( SW ) within the context of a dynamic programming alignment approach to compare DNA motifs .
This method differs significantly from all other DNA-motif based approaches in the sense that it allows gaps in the motif-motif alignments .
Later , a second approach confirmed the deletion based on an interrogation of a dense single nucleotide polymorphism ( SNP ) marker map generated as part of the International HapMap Project [ 17 ] .
This method discovered deletions by identifying clusters of SNPs that showed apparent non-Mendelian inheritance , deviations from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium , or evidence of null genotypes .
A standardized actometric method has been developed for the assessment of neuroleptic-induced akathisia ( NIA ) [ 21 ] .
This method discriminated pure NIA patients from healthy controls and from themselves in remission phase with no overlap [ 21 ] .
We grouped studies by whether they reported statistically significant differences at the 5 % level between minority groups and White / White British children because we felt this approach helped to clarify trends in the data .
This method does , however , have several major limitations , including giving inadequate weight to studies reporting large and highly significant effects and giving too much weight to underpowered studies reporting ' no effect ' .
Linear & LOWESS , which is the default normalization method in the Agilent Feature Extraction Software A.7.5.1 , were applied for normalizing Agilent microarrays .
This method does a linear normalization across the entire range of data , and then applies a non-linear normalization ( LOWESS ) to the linearized data set .
At present the most popular method of PCR efficiency assessment is based on the slope of standard curve .
This method does not account for PCR efficiencies in individual target samples .
However , the disadvantage of this method is that subsequent tumour samples have to be taken at intervals during several days after the administration of BrdUrd [ 7 ] .
This method does not allow a measurement of cell kinetics in an individual tumour at a particular time point and is useless in a clinical setting .
The authors devised a fully automated method which showed time savings over manual methods and very high intraclass correlation between the two methods for use with three different radioligands .
This method does not allow for individualization of intracranial capacity as in SABRE , which will be discussed below .
Tsai et al. proposed a statistical method to identify cell cycle associated TFs in yeast , which used the Kolmogorov-Smirnov ( KS ) test to examine whether expressions of the target and non-target gene sets of a TF are significantly different [ 8 ] .
This method does not assume a linear relationship between gene expression changes and TF-gene binding affinities , whereas a threshold value , which is more or less arbitrarily selected , must be specified to determine the target and non-target gene sets for a TF .
The approach we focus on in this paper is a straightforward method developed by Mee and Chua [ 12 ] based on classical t-test statistics and a linear regression model .
This method does not depend on truncated sampling but requires the knowledge of the true mean µ in the target population .
We present Searchpattool , a new method to search for and select the most specific ( conservative ) frequent patterns .
This method does not impose restrictions on the density or the structure of the pattern .
We propose a robust semiparametric method in a two-way semi-linear model ( TW-SLM ) for normalization of cDNA microarray data .
This method does not make the usual assumptions underlying some of the existing methods .
Evidence of positive selection was sought using a codon-based approach as implemented in Datamonkey [ 68 ] .
This method does not need to assume equal synonymous substitution rates throughout the sequence and allows to choose the most appropriate model for nucleotide substitution .
For the SEER dataset , we also fit our model for cancer progression [ 11 ] with the inferential method described in reference 12 .
This method does not require a life table , but unlike our method it does require information on all the cancer cases for the population at risk .
Besides two global methods ( maximization of the spectrum integral and minimization of the spectrum entropy ) implemented in Automics , we have introduced another easier to implement method for automatic phase correction .
This method does not require detection of isolated individual peaks and is efficient for processing large quantity of similar spectra in metabonomics studies .
An alternative approach would be to use a different type of BCI which operates on the basis of event-related potentials ( P300 ) and allows for presentation of at least four choices [ 29-31 ] .
This method does not require lengthy training .
Haplotypes with a frequency of at least 0.01 were analyzed using a two-step PCA method [ 13 ] .
This method does not require that groups of SNPs be contiguous along a DNA fragment and also allows SNPs to be present in more than one group .
They used the least squares method for estimating the normalization curves based on B-splines .
This method does not require the assumptions required by the LOWESS normalization method , i.e. ( i ) a small fraction of genes are differentially expressed or ( ii ) there is symmetry in the expression levels of up- and down-regulated genes .
In the section below , we propose a symbolic algorithm which finds all infinitely visited states of the model , and verifies a property only on these states .
This method does not require the use of monitors .
Another sequence-based method relies upon the presence / absence of hand-picked " signature sequences " ( conserved insertions / deletions ) [ 7 , 8 ] to infer descent .
This method does not specifically handle horizontal transfers , but can sometimes resolve a short internal branch that can not be unambiguously resolved by a continuous evolutionary model .
Missing values were then replaced by the Expectation-Maximization algorithm or EM algorithm , a maximum likelihood method [ 23 ] .
This method does not underestimate variance , as is common in replacement by mean .
By varying the search strategy according to a priori defined transition probabilities ( which are dependent on the search progress ) , this approach leads to an algorithm that sacrifices an exact relationship with the canonical ensemble for search efficiency .
This method effectively reduces the slow convergence , or quasi-ergodicity , in rugged energy landscapes ; it is therefore very useful when the main interest is in finding global minima , rather than in obtaining other physical properties from canonical ensembles .
Cell wall fragments were purified from a stationary phase culture of L. brevis cells by differential centrifugation of GHCl-treated , mechanically disrupted cells followed by treatments with nucleases and boiling SDS as described in Materials and methods .
This method efficiently removes membrane fragments and noncovalently bound cell wall components like lipoteichoic acids ( LTAs ) , but leaves covalently bound secondary cell wall polymers , like wall teichoic acids and other carbohydrates , essentially intact .
A method was developed to isolate dentate gyrus and EC tissue in mouse brain .
This method eliminates the collection of much of the surrounding tissue that was unaffected by ECL .
Here we introduce a novel and computationally inexpensive visual approach for detecting recombination and inferring breakpoints .
This method emphasizes data exploration and can be regarded as a synthesis of bootscanning [ 9 ] and the quartet-mapping approach for analyzing the tree-likeness of sequence data [ 13 , 14 ] .
Here we show that the transport lattice approach can be used to model transport of heat by conduction and temperature-dependent blood perfusion .
This method employs a network of locally interacting transport , storage and source models that are solved as a system model by Kirchhoff 's laws .
We used the constant comparative method20 , 21 of qualitative data analysis to develop and implement consistent and comprehensive coding of the open-ended data .
This method employs a process in which quotations or observations are catalogued into iteratively developed themes .
The authors have developed a field sampling method for obtaining high quality DNA from bluegill sunfish ( Lepomis macrochirus ) .
This method employs a variation on the buccal swab method and results in the collection of DNA suitable for PCR amplification and polymorphic analysis .
To generate sufficient material for profiling by microarray , a global amplification method was designed to overcome the detrimental effects of high-cycle-number PCR amplification on transcript representation , and to alleviate inefficient amplification by in vitro transcription in the nanogram range ( Figure 2B ) [ 31 ] .
This method employs an initial low-cycle-number PCR amplification using strand-switching PCR amplification approaches , followed by linear in vitro transcription and subsequent labelling of the amplified population .
We used a diagnostic method developed by Rocke [ 29 ] to examine the contribution of different factors to measured differences in signal intensity in 6 hybridizations ( 3 replicates with dye-swaps ) comparing Xoo gene expression in PSB vs. XOM2 using the Xo array .
This method employs analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) .
We used commercially available colorimetric method ( Randox Laboratories Ltd , UK ) .
This method employs xanthine and xanthine oxidase to generate superoxide radicals which reacts with 2- ( 4-iodophenyl ) -3- ( 4-nitrophenol ) -5-phenyltetrazoliumchloride ( I.N.T ) to form red formazan dye .
Inferential statistics were calculated by conducting mixed model analysis .
This method enabled for design , period , and intervention effects to be identified across the variables time and user satisfaction .
As a prerequisite to carry out proteomic experiments with early zebrafish embryos , we developed a method to efficiently remove the yolk from large batches of embryos .
This method enabled high resolution 2D gel electrophoresis and improved Western blotting considerably .
Our machine learning technique significantly improved the overall recognition and , therefore , the identification of faithful HNF4a targets .
This method enabled refinement of TF site predictions based on the ChIP-chip assay and identification from among them of potentially functional sites , as reported here .
Cross-species chromosome painting [ 25 , 26 ] is a powerful method for investigating the evolution of genome organizations .
This method enables ( 1 ) the rapid and reliable identification of homologous chromosome segments between any two species in placental mammals based on DNA sequence homology , ( 2 ) the tracking of chromosomal rearrangements which have occurred during evolution based on the distribution pattern of conserved chromosome segments , and ( 3 ) an independent verification of the molecular phylogenetic tree using signature chromosomal rearrangements [ 27-34 ] .
Pineal microdialysis offers an exceptional technique for measuring quantitative changes in circadian melatonin secretion [ 14 ] .
This method enables real time analysis of a single individual , and therefore can prospectively measure quantitative circadian responses to environmental changes , pharmaceuticals , and potentially disease states .
DNA-binding proteins that do not function in transcription and lack a native AD ( such as chromatin remodelling , replication and DNA repair proteins , and enzymes involved in transposable elements movement ) can also be found using this approach , as a strong , heterologous AD is added to the prey protein [ 14 , 15 ] .
This method enables the cloning of families of factors with conserved DNA binding domains which can interact with the same cis-activation DNA element [ 16-19 ] .
The reconstructed metabolic network was used in combination with a computational method published by Patil and Nielsen [ 27 ] for analysis of large-scale gene expression data referring to a study on glucose repression in A. nidulans .
This method enables the identification of so-called reporter metabolites and metabolic subnetworks , based on their interconnectedness within the metabolic network through common metabolites and on information about changes in the expression level of the genes .
Two-step cluster analysis was used as an exploratory tool to determine subpopulations or clusters within the dataset .
This method enables the input of both categorical and continuous data .
In this paper we propose a method to select regulation factors , i.e. to infer the form of TF-TF and TF-RNAP interactions for each target gene .
This method enables the investigation of regulation factors from empirical data in eukaryotic systems .
The paper by Taewon Lee et al. [ 51 ] presents a method to test the significance of expression changes within a group of genes , while considering the correlation structure among genes in each group .
This method enables the rapid detection of gene expression changes , indicating altered cell functions or pathways , and facilitates the interpretation of the data .
A direct analysis of translational control can be achieved by fractionation of cytoplasmic extracts in sucrose gradients , based on the methods described for polysome analysis [ 21 ] , which involves size separation of large cellular components and monitoring the A254 across the gradient .
This method enables the separation of free mRNPs ( ribonucleoprotein particles ) from mRNAs fully loaded with ribosomes ( i.e. polysomes ) .
We have developed a method of studying the organization of the genome by analysis of the 3D organization of telomeres in the nucleus and their positional changes along the cell cycle , using flow-sorted living cells .
This method enables us to determine , for the first time , that telomere organization is cell-cycle dependent , with assembly of telomeres into a telomeric disk in the G2 phase .
It is based on 3D telomere fluorescence in situ hybridization followed by quantitative analysis that determines the telomeres ' distribution in the nucleus throughout the cell cycle .
This method enables us to determine , for the first time , that telomere organization is cell-cycle dependent , with assembly of telomeres into a telomeric disk in the G2 phase .
Our method takes into account the information presented in multiple templates / alignments at the three-dimensional level by mixing and matching regions between different initial comparative models .
This method enables us to obtain an optimized conformation ensemble representing the best combination of secondary structures , resulting in the refined models of higher quality .
Comparisons of the relative rates of development between fore- and hindlimbs within each species were made using the event-pair method .
This method encodes the relative timing between any two developmental events , with 0 indicating that event A occurred before event B , 1 indicating that both occurred simultaneously , and 2 indicating that event B occurred first .
To randomly allocate participants to one of the three intervention groups the bias coin method of allocation , using a computer-based random number-producing algorithm , is used .
This method ensures an equal chance of allocation to each group .
In addition , a post-transcriptional method of capping was utilized for final modification of the CD40L RNA .
This method enzymatically creates a type I cap structure identical to that found in most eukaryotic mRNAs , in contrast to the type 0 cap incorporated using the conventional co-transcriptional capping reaction .
Although our primary analytic methods will focus on the concordant pair design , we will also use a complementary and related approach , the discordant sibling pair method .
This method essentially searches for areas of the genome that are shared less often than one would expect by chance .
We chose Zero Eigenvalue Analysis [ 56 ] - [ 59 ] as a technique for searching parameter values that produce bistability in our model .
This method establishes a set of restrictions ( the sign compatible relations , see Text S2 ) which must be met in order for bistability to occur .
In this paper , we propose a method for the normalization procedure based on a non-linear mixed-model , as well as a new approach for determining the statistical significance of altered probes based on linear mixed-model .
This method establishes a threshold by using different tolerance intervals that accommodates the specific random error variability observed in each test sample .
We used decision curve analysis [ 35 ] to explore the clinical effects of our models .
This method estimates a ' net benefit ' for prediction models by summing the benefits ( true positives ) and subtracting the harms ( false positives ) .
In this report we describe the implementation of the beta-binomial method to pool the absolute risks from overdispersed data .
This method estimates a summary probability of adverse events and is applicable in medical product safety evaluation as it takes into account the heterogeneity of studies .
To estimate relative risk ( RR ) of marker ( s ) identified as associated to autism in the present paper , we used a conditional likelihood based method [ 36 ] .
This method estimates haplotype RRs under an additive model from unphased data but also single marker like SNP risk and provides unbiased RR in case of deviation from HWE .
The most prevalent top-down costing approach is the ratio of cost to charge ( RCC ) method .
This method estimates procedure-level costs by computing an overall ratio of departmental aggregate costs to charges and applying this ratio for individual procedures and services .
Temporal autocorrelation was estimated using the first-order autoregressive ( AR1 ) method on suprathreshold voxels .
This method estimates the actual autocorrelation from the fMRI time series rather than imposing a generic temporal smoothing filter ( see [ 49 ] for further discussion ) .
According to an established morphometric method ( Cook & Wellman , 2004 ; Radley et al. , 2004 ; Brown et al. , 2005 ) , we evaluated dendritic length and the degree of dendritic complexity using the Sholl ( 1953 ) analysis .
This method estimates the amount and distribution of dendritic material at defined distances from the cell body using a virtual overlay of concentric rings centered on the soma of the neuron .
First , association analysis was done with correction by genomic control .
This method estimates the average effect of population substructure in the sample ( based on median T values ) and accordingly corrects the test statistics [ 18 ] .
Firstly , the genome length was estimated using Method 3 of Chakravarti et al. [ 52 ] , which is a modification of the method-of-moments estimator proposed by Hulbert et al. [ 53 ] .
This method estimates the genome length by multiplying , the ratio of total marker pairs to the number of marker pairs that equals or exceeds a specified LOD threshold value , by the map distance corresponding to the largest observed recombination fraction among the latter marker pairs .
Lee and colleagues [ 3 ] improved on a previous work [ 21 ] by creating what we refer to in this paper as the Integrated Bayesian ( IB ) method .
This method estimates the likelihood of domain interactions based on a protein interaction network from four different organisms ( prediction from each network is treated as independent evidence ) , and on the amount of biological evidence relating two domains , such as co-occurrence of domains in the same protein and existence of common GO terms at the functional level .
In addition , we used the rarefaction method of Petit et al. [ 41 ] to correct for the difference in the number of genes sampled in the two species .
This method estimates the number of alleles that would be observed in an equal sample of genes from multiple groups based on the number of alleles observed in the actual unequal samples obtained .
It is called Fast Fourier Transform - Non Linear Least Squares analysis ( FFT-NLLS ) .
This method estimates the period of a rhythm with the Fast Fourier Transform , then uses that value as a starting point to fit a sinusoid to the data by non linear least squares estimation [ 10 , 18 ] .
As described previously in Steiger et al. ( 2008 ) [ 19 ] , a nonparametric estimation technique applying the concept of ' sample coverage " [ 34 ] was used to estimate the total number of OR genes in each genome investigated .
This method estimates the total number of OR genes from an incomplete sampling of OR genes ( achieved via PCR ) .
Chi Squared : Another commonly used feature selection method is Chi-square statistic ( ?2 ) method [ 3 ] .
This method evaluates each gene individually by measuring the Chi-square statistics with respect to the classes .
Linkage analyses were conducted using the variance components analysis method as implemented in the SOLAR program [ 2 ] .
This method evaluates linkage by comparing a variance component model that permits a particular locus to account for some of the additive genetic variance ( along with a residual polygenic component ) to a purely polygenic model by using likelihood ratio tests .
Linkage analysis with microsatellite markers was performed using a nonparametric allele-sharing method [ 6 ] implemented in software ALLEGRO [ 7 ] in each of the 10 replicates and also in the pooled data .
This method evaluates linkage by testing excessive IBD sharing within affected relatives .
G-banding is often used in clinical settings for the analysis of leukaemia and is best suited to detect large chromosomal aberrations , namely structural or numeric changes [ 16 ] .
This method evaluates stained metaphase chromosome spreads to identify rearrangements and gain or loss of chromosome bands .
One such Fst method is described in [ 2 , 5 ] ( but see also [ 6 ] and [ 7 ] ) and is implemented in the fdist program and can be used for any codominant genetic molecular markers including microsatellites , Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms ( SNPs ) and allozymes .
This method evaluates the relationship between Fst and He ( expected heterozygosity ) in an island model [ 8 ] , describing the expected distribution of Wright 's inbreeding coefficient Fst vs. He under an island model of migration with neutral markers .
AsA localisation in the vascular tissue was confirmed by histochemical analysis of slices excised from courgette fruits and celery petiole ( also used for metabolic studies , see below ) using methanolic AgNO3 solutions .
This method exploits the specific ability of AsA to reduce Ag+ at low temperature resulting in the formation of metallic silver deposits [ 26 ] .
Thirteen candidate genes with cis-QTLs were then selected for further analysis and validation of cis-regulation by measuring allele specific expression ( ASE ) difference [ 56 ] .
This method exploits transcribed SNPs , and uses single base extension to assess expression difference in F1 hybrids .
The 2-?Ct formula is a modification of the arithmetic comparative 2??Ct method [ 59 ] that was developed to enable normalization to a measurement external to the PCR experiment ( in this case , input cDNA ) , for measuring the expression of ' housekeeping ' genes following different treatments .
This method expressed the data as the fold-increase in expression from the mean of the experimental group set as the calibrator ( the control treatment ) and , therefore , enabled direct comparison of the expression of ' housekeeping ' genes with different general levels of expression .
In order to determine the adaptive evolution of ESAG sequences , we used the method described in [ 63 ] to characterize the relative rates of non-synonymous and synonymous substitutions within the ESAG6 , ESAG5 and ESAG2 gene families from each of the three trypanosome subspecies .
This method extends existing likelihood-based approaches for detecting adaptive evolution of protein-coding sequences to recombinant sequences by allowing the genealogy to vary across the alignment while sharing the parameters of the codon substitution model between tracts [ 64 , 65 ] .
Here we propose a method , implemented in MXSCARNA , for fast multiple alignments of RNA sequences .
This method extends our previous work in pairwise alignments ( SCARNA ) [ 25 ] to progressive multiple alignments with improved score functions , and simultaneously construct multiple alignments and the associated common secondary structures .
We presented here a new computational method for verification of PPIs that is based on the co-expression of orthologous protein-pairs , and demonstrated its predictive power using PPIs identified in S. cerevisiae .
This method extends two of the former methods , namely co-expression of interacting proteins and conservation of interactions ( interologs ) .
A method that employs an integrative literature- and data mining approach to select candidate genes was used to select candidate genes for FAS [ 31 ] .
This method extracted a gene list of 10174 genes .
According to the method described by Tiffin et al. [ 31 ] , Dragon Disease Explorer ( DDE ) was used to extract eVOC anatomical terms from the body of literature , where after they were used to extract candidate genes from the Ensembl database .
This method extracted a list of 10174 genes , a reduction of 70.3 % from the original 34294 genes in the Ensembl database .
Similarity relationships between activity patterns were further characterized by factor analysis [ 61 , 62 ] .
This method extracts a small set of “elementary” patterns , called factors , from the original set of measured patterns .
ARD is a data mining technique oriented towards finding associations or correlation relationships among items in transaction datasets .
This method extracts sets of items that frequently occur together in the same transaction , and then formulate rules that characterize these relationships .
Internal calibration is a widely used method in mass spectrometry .
This method fails however , either if no peaks matching known masses are present or if MS peak assignment is false .
Although the simple computational approach presented here uses homologous protein coding genes and corresponding NGPs , the method is applicable to a wide range of homologous genome markers .
This method falls under the broad class of parsimonious gene-order approaches [ 23 ] with a few differences .
In this study , we propose and extensively test a new approach for the prediction of helix-lipid interfaces of TM helices from sequence information alone based on a canonical model of the alpha helix .
This method features a collective assessment of conservation and physico-chemical properties of the residues forming surface patches along the TM helix .
Here we present the design and implementation of a novel and robust online phenotype discovery method with broad applicability that can be used in diverse experimental contexts , especially high-throughput RNAi screens .
This method features phenotype modelling and iterative cluster merging using improved gap statistics .
The CCs and the SPs were calculated for each turn of the bootstrapping algorithm .
This method filters robust effects across trials and provides reliable distributions .
To control for the possible effect of common phylogenetic descent , we used Felsenstein 's [ 45 ] independent comparison method as implemented in the computer program PDAP ( Vers. 6.0 , module PDTREE ) by Garland et al. [ 46 ] and Garland & Ives [ 47 ] .
This method finds a set of independent pair-wise differences or contrasts , assuming that changes along the branches of the phylogeny can be modelled by a Brownian motion process ( successive changes are independent of one another ) , and that the expected total change over many independent changes is zero [ 48 ] .
To meet the needs of clinical proteomics of comparing large sets of 2D gels , we have developed Sili2Dgel an automatic gel alignment method based on graph theory to find SAP ( without manual adjustment ) after a recursive alignment procedure .
This method first constructs a matching graph and then reduces its complexity by searching all its maximal cliques , adding the ?-dense nodes with a high minimal weight , selecting the clusters with high size and quality values and selecting nodes which belong to several clusters .
In order to compute the distance between a matrix and a set of indices , our software uses the correlation method described by Tomii and Kanehisa [ 23 ] .
This method first converts each index ( a vector of 20 values , one for each amino acids ) into a matrix by calculating the simple arithmetic distance between each pair of amino acids , as defined by the index .
The method of Chaussabel and Sher [ 2 ] can be used to analyze gene lists in order to cluster the genes based on up-to-date literature associations .
This method first defines terms that occur frequently and exclusively in at least two analyzed genes ' up-to-date related literature as keywords , then clusters the analyzed genes based on keyword occurrences .
The TGDR approach was originally proposed for the linear regression [ 7 ] .
This method first establishes a parameter path in the high dimensional coefficient space using the gradient descent method , and then identifies the best model along the parameter path with certain cross validation techniques .
Relative changes in gene expression were calculated using the ??Ct ( threshold cycle ) method .
This method first subtracts the ct ( Threshold cycle number ) of the gene-avg ct of the two house keeping genes ( 18srRNA and ACTB ) to normalize to the RNA amounts .
The nested-PCR fragments from PKD1 cDNA showing no abnormality in size were further screened for mutation by a multiple restriction fragment-single strand conformation polymorphism ( MRF-SSCP ) method .
This method firstly developed by Lee et al. [ 21 ] was modified to use silver staining instead of radioactive detection .
As an alternative to the existing noise detection and interpolation approaches , we developed a new baseline correction method based on a penalized parametric smoothing model .
This method fits a curve following the bottom envelope of the spectrum and doesn't need explicit identification of the noise data points .
The narrative interviews have been interpreted using a phenomenological-hermeneutic approach inspired by Ricoeur [ 11 , 13 ] which has previously been applied in a similar way [ 14 , 15 ] .
This method focuses upon understanding and interpreting the meaning of phenomena of life experiences .
Random telephone numbers following the method by Gabler and Häder were used to contact interviewees [ 11 ] .
This method for achieving equivalence of samples in cross-national surveys allows a maximum inclusion opportunity for all fixed telephone subscribers in Germany .
While this approach has been used successfully [ 6 ] , others have suggested that greater power can be obtained by looking at multiple tags or haplotypes [ 18 , 20 ] .
This method for computing power can be adapted to such strategies provided it is possible to compute the power of detecting each SNP in the population given the set of tagging SNPs .
A patient-centred approach to measuring efficacy in migraine treatment studies involves asking each patient to rate the relative importance of key outcomes , such as speed of pain relief , duration of relief ( i.e. absence of headache recurrence ) , improvement in migraine-associated symptoms ( e.g. nausea , photophobia and phonophobia ) , and risk of side effects .
This method for rating the importance to the patient of each clinical outcome has been proposed ( 8-10 ) , but to our knowledge , has not been used prospectively in a migraine trial .
As we have shown here , applying this algorithm significantly increases genotyping savings , reducing the number of SNPs needed for structure identification almost by six-fold .
This method for redundancy removal can be applied to any set of SNPs in order to select a minimally correlated subset .
With this approach , there is a reduced need to acquire knowledge from the user .
This method for the discovery of novel and interesting patterns is based on comparing the strength of patterns mined from a clinical database with the strength of the equivalent patterns mined from a relevant knowledgebase .
Our group introduced a method for the selective isolation of N-linked glycopeptides , and analysis of the complex peptide mixture representing the now de-glycosylated forms of these peptides by MS / MS [ 17 ] .
This method further enables high-throughput identification of N-linked glycosylation sites ( N-linked glycosites ) , defined as the acceptor asparagines for N-linked glycosylation to take place on protein sequences .
A more general method , described in [ 11 ] , used scores based on atom pairs that contact across interfaces combined with iterative partitioning of the graph representing crystal contacts in order to predict complexes .
This method gave a 16 % error rate on a non-redundant set of 218 X-ray structures .
Due to the spread of residues being more on the diametrical plane of these helices , the axis found using the eigenvector method lay closer to the plane of the diameter instead of being normal to it .
This method gave good results for longer helices .
Myoblastic cells capable of spontaneously differentiating and fusing into myotubes were generated by a standard method involving enzymatic digestion of mouse muscle tissue [ 34 ] .
This method generated cultures possessing > 80 % desmin positive myoblasts capable of fusing into multinucleated myotubes .
To compare organism amino acid composition , we performed hierarchical clustering using the complete linkage method with distances computed using the Euclidean metric on a dataset that consisted of the mean percent amino acid composition from all predicted open-reading frames for each of the 100 organisms ( Figure 2 ) .
This method generates clusters of organisms with a similar mean composition across all 20 amino acids that are maximally separated by using the farthest neighbours .
An alternative approach is based on sequencing by base specific cleavage as described in the previous section .
This method generates different cleavage patterns for the methylated and unmethylated CpG positions present in the fragment analysed .
We assessed genome-wide changes in methylation patterns using a unique methylation profiling technique called amplification of intermethylated sites ( AIMS ) .
This method generates easily readable fingerprints that represent the investigated cell line 's methylation profile , based on the differential cleavage of DNA with methylation-specific isoschisomeric restriction endonucleases .
The TatP method is able to positively classify 91 % of 35 known Tat signal peptides and 84 % of the annotated cleavage sites of these Tat signal peptides were correctly predicted .
This method generates far less false positive predictions on various datasets than using simple pattern matching .
To produce an accurate multiple sequence alignment of a domain family for pinpointing insertion events , the structure-based multiple sequence alignment of each family was constructed with a similar method proposed by Casbon and Saqi in building S4 , a database of structure-based sequence alignments of SCOP superfamilies [ 15 ] .
This method generates high quality multiple structure-based alignment by running T-Coffee to perform hierarchical alignment using information from the pairwise structural alignments .
In surveys 1 and 3 , the hundred-bank method [ 11 ] was used to generate telephone numbers .
This method generates one hundred new telephone numbers from each stem ( prefix ) identified from the National Telephone Directory by assigning the numbers from 00 to 99 to the end of each stem ( e.g. 01-1234200 to 01-1234299 ) .
Clustering was initiated using evenly spaced profiles as algorithm .
This method generates profiles to be used as centroids that are evenly distributed between the minimum and maximum value for each variable in the selected profiles ( from Spotfire DecisionSite User 's Guide and Reference Manual ) .
Instead of solving the master equation , a widely used method is to carry out Monte Carlo simulations using the Gillespie algorithm [ 14 ] .
This method generates samples from multiple runs of simulation , and statistics properties are calculated from the simulation trajectories , which provide characterizations of the network [ 13 , 14 , 20 , 21 ] .
BayGenomics [ 3 ] and other members of the International Gene Trap Consortium ( IGTC ) [ 4 , 5 ] typically use 5 ' RACE [ 6 ] , a common method for amplifying sequence from gene insertion events .
This method generates sequence from only one strand of DNA , and often generates only relatively short sequences , with sequencing errors accumulating especially towards the 3 ' end .
A second method to locate novel regulatory regions within the genome is the search for statistically improbable concentration of putative binding sites for a transcription factor or a set of functionally related transcription factors .
This method generates testable predictions about the function of the putative regulatory regions .
In the complete-linkage algorithm , the distance between clusters is defined as the distance between the most distant pair of objects ( i.e. genes ) .
This method gives compact clusters .
We are able to build a low bias and a low variance predictor using model-averaging method : classifier ensembles .
This method greatly improves the accuracy of classification .
As a second alternative approach we developed an unsupervised clustering procedure ( see Material and Methods ) .
This method grouped potential candidates into 8 groups on the basis of peak reproducibility and log2 signal ratios ( data not shown ) .
No interaction terms of independent variables were included in this analysis .
This method had been implemented within the simulation program and logistic regression was carried out to estimate the log likelihoods for the dataset assuming no genetic effect on risk or assuming that the risk allele at each locus exerted an independent effect , producing a LRS having 4 degrees of freedom .
From this combined data set ( 23 samples ) we selected genes classified as Present ( see Methods ) at least once ( 5372 genes ) and then clustered the log-transformed data with average linkage analysis .
This method had previously produced a dendrogram that matched the expected sample biology in the pilot data set .
Another surgical approach suggested for the management of BAV , associated with a dilated ascending aorta < 5.5 cm , is to carry out AVR with wrapping of the ascending aorta .
This method has a low morbidity and mortality rate and was seen to decrease the risk of further dilatation , aneurysm formation and dissection [ 54 , 55 ] .
Their technique makes use of PCR amplification and a subsequently a linear ligation detection reaction , followed by detection of Cy3-signals on a universal array containing ZIP-codes .
This method has a sensitivity of 50 molecules in maize and 100 molecules in soya .
In this study , protein truncation testing ( PTT ) was the methodology used .
This method has a slightly lower sensitivity in finding BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations than direct DNA sequencing [ 16 , 34 ] .
We present a novel method for classification of hot and cold ORFs located in hotspots and coldspots respectively in Saccharomyces cerevisiae , using support vector machine ( SVM ) , which relies on codon composition differences .
This method has achieved a high classification accuracy of 85.0 % .
We used the ecological method of Carstairs and Morris [ 14 ] ( 1990 ) to assign a socio-economic deprivation index to each postal address .
This method has advantages over occupational classification especially among older women .
Primer extension analysis is routinely used for expression profiling ( Fig 5 ) ( 1 , 2 ) .
This method has advantages over other profiling methods like RT-PCR , and Northern blotting in that it is easy , quantitative , and allows for mapping of the transcription start site .
Lloyd Greene ( Columbia University , New York , USA ) has started to address these issues using serial analysis of gene expression ( SAGE ) .
This method has allowed Greene 's group to identify transcripts that are regulated following treatment with nerve growth factor ( NGF ) of the PC12 rat pheochromocytoma cell line , a widely used model of growth and differentiation .
2. Budget driven mechanisms - also described as a pragmatic approach , where service levels and associated workforce levels are determined in the context of defined expenditure targets .
This method has also been referred to as the service-demands method [ 50 ] .
Sequence analysis of the 16S rRNA gene has proved extremely useful for evolutionary studies of prokaryotes [ 10 ] and constitutes the basis for the revised taxonomy of bacteria [ 11 ] .
This method has also been successfully used for identification of Campylobacter spp. [ 12 ] .
A similar approach has been used by Blitzblau and coworkers , with similar conclusions [ 56 ] .
This method has also been used to identify ssDNA regions that accumulate when mitotic replication is blocked [ 48 ] .
A highly effective method , termed suppression subtractive hybridization ( SSH ) , has been applied to generating subtracted cDNA libraries of various systems .
This method has also been used to isolate ovary-specific genes in several species [ 29-32 ] .
[ 7 , 8 ] This algorithm , which is usually referred to as the Chou-Fasman method , tries to find structures based on the difference in the probability of observing each of the twenty residues in helices , sheets and other structures .
This method has an accuracy of about 50-60 % [ 7 , 8 ] , although it has been shown that this method can be improved greatly with the application of several amendments [ 9 ] .
Nevertheless , SAM has one much worse problem : its method for estimating FDR , which we will show does not produce meaningful results .
This method has been abandoned in sam2.20 .
Correspondence analysis [ 21-23 ] is a powerful method for the multivariate exploration of large-scale data .
This method has been applied in various research areas , including genomic analyses ( for example [ 24-26 ] ) .
Therefore , we apply DFA to the analysis of biological data , which calculates the root-mean-square fluctuation of integrated and detrended time series , permits the detection of intrinsic self-similarity embedded in a non-stationary time series , and also avoids the spurious detection of apparent self-similarity [ 1 ] .
This method has been applied to a wide range of simulated and physiologic time series in recent years [ 19 , 8 , 9 , 21 , 22 ] .
MALDI-TOF MS emerged as one of the most accurate allelotyping techniques when compared with Pyrosequencing ( Biotage , Uppsala , Sweden ) , TaqMan , and SNaPshot ( Applied Biosystems ) [ 37 ] .
This method has been applied to disease association studies , particularly at a time when genotyping costs were relatively high [ 38 , 39 ] .
We have developed a data mining approach for rapid summarization and visualization of information from clinical trial registries .
This method has been applied to the analysis of cancer vaccine trials and provides convenient means of extraction and presentation of key data about cancer vaccine trials .
A dietary analysis method is described that provides a new tool for establishing relationships between diet and disease .
This method has been applied to the study of ulcerative colitis and points to sulfite and caffeine as being harmful , with thiamin and resistant starch being potentially therapeutic .
The 3D aneurysm model was then reconstructed using a CAD program and subsequently imported into a commercial finite element software for mesh generation and stress analysis .
This method has been applied to two aneurysm models and the results have been compared with the less accurate models constructed from a single set of images .
To depict a patient 's skeletal deformity and to perform his / her pathomechanical analysis , the specific bone and joint geometry and dimension can be derived from the generic model using the acquired x-ray or CT data in order to evaluate the biomechanical effects of the pathology and to simulate the anticipated treatment outcome based on various clinical scenarios .
This method has been described as the " parametric scaling " technique in the simulation environment using custom software or commercial program such as Pro / ENGINEER™ ( PTC Engineering Solutions , Parametric Technology , MA ) .
To evaluate the genetic diversity of R. africae , we used the multi-spacer typing ( MST ) method as previously described [ 53 ] .
This method has been described as the most discriminatory genotyping tool at the intraspecies level in Rickettsia sp. [ 53 ] .
Population biologists have developed an analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) -style of analysis , which tests whether a collection of communities have similar genetic diversities using mitochondrial DNA sequences and other genetic markers .
This method has been designated as either the analysis of molecular variance ( AMOVA ) [ 47 ] or non-parametric multivariate analysis of variance ( MANOVA ) [ 48 ] .
A third method , qRT-PCR was used for independent validation of miRNA microarray data for the relative expression of miRNAs in mouse brain [ 39 ] .
This method has been determined to be quantitative and sensitive ; it requires as little as 50-100 ng of total cellular RNA as starting material and is specific enough to allow for discrimination between miRNAs differing by a single nucleotide .
For this epidemiological study we have chosen a standardized observation method : the Dysphagia Disorder Survey ( DDS ) / Dysphagia Management Staging Scale ( DMSS ) .
This method has been developed especially for people with developmental disabilities [ 45 ] .
Elements defined by our method can be approximated using vectors , and we have retained longer elements wherever possible .
This method has been developed for simplified representation of protein structures for similarity searches with other proteins .
Using this approach on the yeast proteome , Wolters et al. [ 19 ] identified 5,540 unique peptides from 1,484 proteins and demonstrated a dynamic range of detection of 10,000-fold .
This method has been extended to comparative protein profiling by using in vivo 14N / 15N metabolic labeling [ 20 , 21 ] .
A well known simulation algorithm due to Gillespie [ 13 , 14 ] performs an exact simulation of the Chemical Master Equation for a well mixed system .
This method has been extended to spatially distributed systems by Elf and others [ 15 , 16 ] .
It is a new approach to subtype bacteria which involve amplification and fragment size analysis of polymorphic regions of DNA containing variable numbers of tandem repeat sequences .
This method has been found to be very useful in discriminating between isolates that are highly clonal including various pathogenic species [ 9 ] .
A computerized method , termed receptive field imaging ( RFI ) , for rapid mapping of multiple receptive fields and their respective sensitivity distributions was used in all experiments .
This method has been fully described and validated in [ 14 ] .
The proposed method has the practical advantages , over existing approaches , to consider complex heterogeneities in the alternative hypothesis , to take into account prior information ( from an expert judgment or previous studies ) by allowing a semi-supervised mode , and to deal with truncated distributions such as those obtained in Monte-Carlo simulations .
This method has been implemented and is available through the R package kerfdr via the CRAN or at .
Since the vast majority ( 59 of 62 , 95 % ) of our multiplex families were nuclear families with two or more affected siblings , but no other affected relative pairs , we used the nonparametric MLS method for affected sibling pair data [ 76 ] to compute family-specific lod scores .
This method has been implemented in the program SIBLINK [ 77 ] .
To account for the non-independence between these SNPs , a spectral decomposition method was used to obtain the effective number of independent SNPs [ 10 ] .
This method has been implemented in the software SNPSpD . SNPs with allele frequency less than 5 % were excluded from the analysis .
We propose a new clustering method for analysis of the repeat data captured in suffix trees .
This method has been incorporated into a system that can find repeats in individual genome sequences or sets of sequences , and that can organize those repeats into classes .
Single-stranded conformational polymorphism ( SSCP ) analysis has been widely applied to detect SNPs , including point mutations in cancer and congenital diseases [ 1-4 ] .
This method has been modified to detect signals by use of radio isotope-labeled PCR fragments , detection of PCR fragments by silver staining , PCR using fluorescent labeled primers , and fluorescent internal labeling of PCR fragments [ 5-10 ] .
For gene deletions , the Red / RecET recombination method developed by several groups [ 6-11 ] is considered as the most useful now .
This method has been named Recombinogenic Engineering or Recombineering and reviewed in several papers [ 12-15 ] .
Flame photometry is a simple , relatively inexpensive , high sample throughput method used for clinical , biological , and environmental analysis .
This method has been preferred to the use of fluorescence probes in the study of total cyanobacterial Na+- K+ levels .
Alignment-based analysis of RIP involves the multiple alignment of a repeat family and counting RIP mutations along the alignment for all sequences .
This method has been previously used to identify RIP within the Ty1 transposon family of Microbotryum violaceum using the software tool Sequencher .
Here genetic algorithm based feature selection is a so called wrapper model , which uses the classifier to measure the discriminative power of feature subsets from the extracted components .
This method has been proved the best one feature selection method [ 16 ] .
As a first step towards understanding the immune defense reactions of both model organisms we used the suppression subtractive hybridization ( SSH ) technique .
This method has been proven as a valuable tool for identification of novel immune-inducible genes in a number of animal species , including representatives of Ecdysozoa [ 12-18 ] , Lophotrochozoa [ 19-22 ] , and Deuterostomia [ 23 , 24 ] .
Functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) is a non-invasive technique that assesses cortical activation by measuring changes in the local concentration of paramagnetic deoxyhemoglobin .
This method has been referred to as blood oxygen level-dependent ( BOLD ) imaging .
Another transfection method , electroporation [ 6 ] , also termed electrotransfer [ 7 ] or electropermeabilization [ 8 ] , is an experimental technique involving the application of brief electric pulses to cells or tissues in order to increase cellular permeability to macromolecules .
This method has been reported to increase naked DNA expression by 100-fold or more [ 6-8 ] .
To determine whether differences in Hps gene copy number among soybean lines could be detected by other methods , we performed a comparative genomic DNA hybridization to cDNA microarrays .
This method has been shown to be effective to distinguish changes in gene copy number in other species [ 13 ] .
To address these issues , we assessed expression of Bag-1 on a large cohort of primary breast cancers using tissue microarrays , employing a new method of automated , quantitative analysis .
This method has been shown to be more accurate than pathologist-based scoring of 3 , 3'-Diaminobenzidine Tetrahydrochloride stain ( DAB ) stain [ 64 ] , and produces quantitative measures that are directly proportional to the concentration of the measured biomarker [ 65 , 66 ] .
The filtered data sets for the gene expression experiments were analyzed using rank products analysis [ 37 ] via the RankProd package in R ( version 2.5.0 ) [ 68 ] .
This method has been shown to be robust in the identification of true differentially expressed genes in data sets where there are few replicates and/or large variance [ 69 , 70 ] .
Specifically , we used a new statistical approach to estimate recombination rate variation from patterns of linkage disequilibrium in a sample of 24 western chimpanzees ( Pan troglodytes verus ) .
This method has been shown to produce reliable results on simulated data and on human data from the TAP2 region .
Comparison of polysomal associated mRNA between developmental stages using microarray analysis provides an approach to a genomic-wide investigation of translation dynamics during development .
This method has been successful in identifying cellular internal ribosomal entry sites ( IRES ) that are translated in mitotic HeLa cells and to describe the global translation profile of Saccharomyces cerevisiae [ 10-12 ] .
We have recently developed an SVD-based phylogenetic method that provides accurate comparisons of a high fraction of sequences within whole genomes without the prior identification of orthologs or homologous sites [ 13 ] .
This method has been successfully applied to a number of diverse genome datasets , including mitochondrial genomes , bacterial genomes , and viral genomes [ 13-15 ] .
In the past we reported the development of a method to generate such models called the Stabilized Matrix Method ( SMM ) .
This method has been successfully applied to predicting peptide binding to MHC molecules , peptide transport by the transporter associated with antigen presentation ( TAP ) and proteasomal cleavage of protein sequences .
They used a Monte Carlo ( MC ) hill-climbing algorithm to search for the most probable alignments .
This method has been successfully used for aligning real genomic sequences , such as Drosophila , rodent and hominid non-coding DNA [ 5 , 14 , 15 ] .
We used the Sammon projection method [ 27 ] as the embedding procedure .
This method has been successfully used to embed proteins on a two-dimensional space for clustering purposes [ 41 ] .
In this article , we present an entirely new approach to this problem , namely , the application of Ki-energy , which can be enhanced through the practice of the Nishino Breathing Method ( NBM ) ( 19-21 ) .
This method has been taught by Kozo Nishino at two schools ( Tokyo and Osaka ) for the past 20 years .
Note that caution should be taking when evaluating the predictive performance of the ARB method .
This method has been trained on data from the IEDB database , and thus very likely has been trained on data included in the benchmark evaluation set .
Note that caution should also here be taking when evaluating the predictive performance of the ARB method .
This method has been trained on data from the IEDB database , and thus very likely has been trained on data included in the evaluation set .
The ASQOL was translated using the dual-panel approach [ 25 ] .
This method has been uniformly employed in the development of new language versions of needs-based questionnaires including the ASQOL and assumes that the verification and acceptability of translations should rest with people typical of future respondents [ 25 , 26 ] .
A more commonly used approach would have been to harvest appropriate items from existing questionnaires .
This method has been used extensively in the development of instruments for assessing the quality of both randomized and non-randomized studies of health care interventions [ 24-26 ] .
Camera-trapping techniques have been used for identifying individual tigers [ 6 ] .
This method has been used for estimating tiger abundance and density in the conceptual framework of the mark-recapture statistics and has been employed in providing estimates of tiger populations in many protected areas in India and elsewhere [ 7-9 ] .
The second algorithm used was PAM ( Predictive Analysis for Microarrays ) , a shrunken centroid method of classification [ 15 ] .
This method has been used for high dimensional microarray studies and is relatively easy to implement .
In this approach , an epitope-labeled polyA binding protein ( FLAG-PAB-1 ) is expressed transgenically under the control of a cell-specific promoter and mRNAs isolated by co-immunoprecipitation with anti-FLAG .
This method has been used for microarray analysis of C. elegans body muscle cells and ciliated sensory neurons [ 87 , 88 ] .
A critical incidents analysis will be conducted to identify key decisions that have influenced the implementation of telehealth and EHR in the Quebec health care system .
This method has been used in previous studies on the impact of health technology assessment on political decisions [ 13 , 22 ] .
Thus , we have developed a reliable heuristic method for determining dependency types automatically given the dependency structure .
This method has been used to assign dependency types to the whole corpus .
Although this method has limited usage , it is a useful addition to the sequencing methods in some cases , e.g. , where cDNA is not readily available .
This method has been used to determine the sequence of PAP-Saci [ 3 ] and trichomaglin [ 4 ] .
Employing a similar calculation procedure to the previous method , this one emerged as a consequence of the objections raised by certain researchers about using RRs to estimate smoking attributable mortality from other countries [ 72 ] .
This method has been used to estimate mortality attributable to tobacco use [ 73-75 ] in China when the epidemic was still in the initial phase .
Although there are a range of methods to elicit qualitative information from children , a technique that has become popular is " draw and write " [ 16 ] , which was first described by Williams in 1989 [ 17 ] .
This method has been used to explore children 's views about a range of health topics , including HIV / AIDS , drugs , and skin cancer [ 14 , 18-20 ] .
The pathway-guided approach to examine the correspondence between the known metabolic pathway and the organization of metabolic processes learned from expression data is to select sets of genes for pathways and search for significant co-expression within each pathway .
This method has been used to reveal transcriptional co-expression of genes belonging to the same metabolic pathway across different tissues in complex organisms , e.g. , Krebs cycle enzymes in frog [ 5 ] or lactose biosynthesis enzymes in mouse [ 6 ] .
The authors have devised a method for identification of functional RNA structures based on phylogenetic analysis of multiple alignments .
This method has been used to screen the regions of the human genome that are under strong selective constraints .
The Spatial filtering methodology employs non-parametric statistical techniques as a tool in exploratory spatial data analysis .
This method has been used to study clusters of congenital anomalies , infant mortality , and other forms of birth morbidity [ 3 , 18 , 20 ] .
Recently , researchers have developed a method for discovering SNP loci and estimating MAF in a single run , by pooling individuals and digesting with HaeIII , selecting fragments in the 70-200 bp range ( creating a reduced representation library , or RRL ) and resequencing .
This method has been used to successfully identify large numbers of SNPs in domestic cattle [ 58 ] and could easily be adapted to the rhesus macaque .
However , the successful application of the method is contingent on data quality control ; e.g. , amplification efficiencies .
This method has been used with various success and failure .
In order to obtain quantitative , objective measures of expression , we used our newly developed method of automated , quantitative analysis ( AQUA™ ) of tissue microarrays .
This method has been validated , has proven to be more accurate than pathologist-based scoring of brown stain [ 33 , 34 ] , and has been used in a number of prior melanoma studies [ 35-38 ] .
An alternative bedside technique has been described in which intragastric pressure measurements are taken from an indwelling nasogastric tube .
This method has been validated and found to vary within 2.5 cmH2O of urinary bladder pressures [ 12 ] .
In this study , we have developed a tandem machine learning approach for the identification of regulatory target genes based on these parameters and on the corresponding binding site information contents that measure the affinities of the factor for these cognate elements .
This method has been validated using models of DNA binding sites recognized by the xenobiotic-sensitive nuclear receptor , PXR / RXRa , for target genes within the human genome .
Selective genotyping can be an efficient method , providing good power as compared to complete genotyping at a reduced cost [ 20 ] .
This method has been widely used , with sometimes adjustments from the original strategy , in QTL mapping half-sibs or F2 designs , for different species and different traits , such as growth or immune related traits [ e.g. [ 21-24 ] ] .
The first of these , the finite-difference time-domain ( FDTD ) method , is based on the Yee algorithm [ 12 ] and uses finite difference approximations of the time and space derivatives of Maxwell 's curl equations to create a discrete three-dimensional representation of the electric and magnetic fields .
This method has been widely used to numerically evaluate the electromagnetic radiation patterns of antennas in tissue [ 13-17 ] , although long computation times are generally required .
A useful way of discovering SNP 's in non-model organisms is by designing primers in exons in a species with considerable genomic data to amplify the corresponding exon ( or intron ) in a species with limited genetic data ( i.e. the EPIC approach , [ 20 , 21 ] ) .
This method has for example been used to amplify 242 introns in several diverse avian species by designing primers in conserved regions between the chicken genome sequence and orthologous zebra finch sequences [ 3 ] .
Here , we focus on spacer oligonucleotide typing ( spoligotyping ) , a technique that exploits polymorphism in the direct repeat ( DR ) region of M. tuberculosis [ 8 , 9 ] .
This method has gained widespread use for differentiating isolates of M. tuberculosis over the last decade [ 10 ] .
In this issue , Nancy Moran , Emmanuelle Lerat , and Vincent Daubin propose an approach that solves this problem by identifying a set of genes that serve as reliable indicators of the vertical transfer of bacterial cell lineages .
This method has important implications for biologists studying the evolutionary history of organisms by establishing a foundation for charting the evolutionary events , such as lateral gene transfer , that shape the structure and substance of genomes .
Common to all techniques , which are applied in the above cited literature to analyze synchronization , is that they rely on simultaneous measurements of the electrocardiogram ( ECG ) and respiratory flow .
This method has its pros and cons .
For example , consider the evaluation method of generating synthetic data using computer simulation techniques [ 6-9 ] .
This method has many advantages including that the true phylogeny is known and large amounts of data can be generated rapidly .
In one approach , MAPCeL ( micro-array profiling of C. elegans cells ) , green-fluorescent protein ( GFP ) labeled cells are isolated by fluorescence activated cell sorting ( FACS ) from preparations of dissociated embryonic cells [ 5 ] .
This method has now been used to profile global gene expression in specific subsets of neurons and muscle cells [ 5-10 ] ( RMF , DMM , unpublished data ) .
One productive approach to the analysis and prediction of functional subtypes identified key sites in multiple protein sequence alignments that specify the different functional subtypes .
This method has performed well in defining functional subtypes with prediction accuracies of up to 96 % [ 33 ] .
We describe a tissue culture method combined with a novel read out system for both tissue cultivation and rapid assessment of drug efficacy together with the simultaneous identification of different cell types within non-fixed breast cancer tissues .
This method has potential significance for studying tumor responses to anticancer drugs in the complex environment of a primary cancer tissue .
Body composition was assessed by impedance using a standard bioimpedance technique ( Bodystat 1500 ; Bodystat , Isle of Man , UK ) according to the manufacturer’s instructions .
This method has previously been shown to be valid [ 37 ] .
First , a canonical correspondence analysis ( CCA ) was performed using CANOCO 4.0 [ 54 ] .
This method has previously been used successfully for testing the effect of tree-like hydrogeographic data and supplementary ecological data on microsatellite allele-frequencies in freshwater fishes [ 55 ] , as well as an alternative to traditional phylogenetic comparative methods [ 20 ] .
In order to detect such long-range periodic patterns in inherently noisy chromosome position-dependent data , wavelet analysis has been used in several studies [ 13 , 15 ] ( Figure 1 ) .
This method has previously been used to detect patterns in gene orientation [ 14 ] , DNA-bending profiles [ 16 ] , and gene expression data [ 17 , 18 ] in prokaryotes , as well as GC / AT skew oscillations in human chromosomes [ 19 ] .
Because transcription factors tend to bind short and degenerate sequences , the PWM-based approach provides better definition of transcription factor binding properties based on binding affinity .
This method has proved to be very effective for in silico prediction of prokaryotic transcription factor binding sites [ 43 , 44 ] .
The traditional approach for identification of relevant genes in susceptibility loci is a combination of positional cloning and linkage analysis [ 11 , 12 ] .
This method has proven to be effective [ 7 , 13 ] , but has disadvantages .
The YIU method allows rapid conversion of cDNAs into shRNA templates .
This method has several advantages over previous methods [ 5-7 ] .
Viestenz et al. [ 11 , 12 ] and Quentin et al. [ 13 ] used the method of simultaneous slide projection to evaluate the rotation of the toric lens .
This method has shown superior accuracy in calculating the rotational stability , because it respects the autorotation of the eye which has shown to be up to 11.5 degrees ( mean of 2.3 degrees ) [ 12 , 14 ] .
To remedy this problem , Zhang et al. [ 23 ] developed a novel coalescence-guided hierarchical Bayesian method wich uses a hierarchical structure to directly model the coalescence relationship among modern-day haplotypes .
This method has shown to have merits compared with PHASE v2.1.1 .
The minimum covariance determinant ( MCD ) regression method [ 29 ] is a well performing robust regression method that can also handle cases where both X and y are multivariate .
This method has similarities to the LTS regression in that it also considers subsets instead of complete sets in the estimation .
The super-syringe technique was largely utilized during the 1980s to describe the different stages of ARDS [ 1 , 2 ] .
This method has some disadvantages , however ; the patient has to be disconnected from the ventilator and there is a loss of lung volume during the inflation procedure due to the consumption of the oxygen contained in the syringe .
We introduce a novel multi-chip normalization method for Affymetrix-based aCGH data .
This method has some similarity with the normalization techniques used in expression array analysis , however no assumptions of common distribution or existence of an invariant set are used .
High accuracy predictions of essential genes have also been made using flux balance analysis [ 7 ] .
This method has the advantage of generating hypotheses regarding which genes are likely to be essential under a wide variety of hypothetical conditions .
As an alternative to the standard curve method , relative quantification can also be achieved with the method named " comparative CT " or " delta-deltaCT " [ 8 ] .
This method has the advantage of not requiring the construction of a standard curve for each experiment , but requires a validation experiment to demonstrate that reaction efficiencies for transgenes ( two in our case ) and endogenous gene are identical or at least very close [ 9 ] .
To assess the statistical significance of the method of finding segment boundaries , a shuffled genome was constructed by dividing the mouse genome into 100 base pieces ; the pieces for each chromosome were then shuffled separately .
This method has the advantage of preserving many qualities of the raw sequence including the base frequency .
Second , probabilistic divergence measures ( PDM , [ 53 ] ) were used to compare different tree topologies in adjacent sequence windows using a Markov chain Monte-Carlo approach to estimate marginal posterior probabilities for each topology .
This method has the advantage of removing any effects due to rate heterogeneity among the sequences .
To perform a comparative SAGE analysis of normal , preinvasive and invasive lesions , we used a modified t test that we have recently developed [ 8 ] .
This method has the advantage of taking into account both the intra-sample and inter-sample variability , identifying ' common patterns ' of gene changes systematically occurring across samples .
In this paper , we propose the AT excursion method , which is a score-based approach , to quantify local AT abundance in genomic sequences and use the identified high scoring segments for predicting replication origins .
This method has the advantages of requiring no preset window size and having rigorous criteria to evaluate statistical significance of high scoring segments .
The strength of our system is a multiplex anti-CK / anti-EpCAM-enrichment protocol combined with a fully automated image analysis platform using both fluorescent and brightfield detection .
This method has the capability to enrich all three types of CTCs for complete CTC profiling and downstream analysis .
Recently , we described a new high throughput AFLP ( htAFLP ) approach for the identification of DNA polymorphism in Mycobacterium tuberculosis [ 26 ] .
This method has the capacity to detect mutations in more than 30,000 nucleotides scattered throughout the genome , depending on the number of restriction enzymes and primer pairs used .
We introduce a simple algorithm , using the charge / electrostatic potential neighbourhood , to recover the signal for non-phosphorylated structures .
This method has the potential to aid studies of conformational change associated with phosphorylation , since it predicts the target area for phosphate binding .
Application of this method to two publicly-available cancer data sets yields suggestive and promising results .
This method has the potential to complement gene-at-a-time analysis techniques for microarray analysis by indicating relationships between pathways and genes that have not previously been identified and which may play a role in disease .
The approach has the high specificity and high resolution of previous in situ methods while allowing for the analysis of several genes expression patterns in parallel .
This method has the potential to provide an analysis of gene expression patterns at the genome level .
An initial guess for these 20 parameters was obtained from Mobs and then the values that maximized the total likelihood were obtained using the simplex algorithm .
This method has the same constraints as the M1 method with the additional constraint that the sAT and sGC parameters are equal across all site types .
The algorithm we used to estimate the proportion of women who were unreachable is simple and is based on reasonable , although not perfect assumptions .
This method however , in our opinion , is useful since there are no other simple solutions to assess the quality of the address lists .
The 4C model ( though not a true gold standard ) is often used as a criterion method to compare the accuracy of other methods for assessing body fat .
This method however , is costly and time consuming and therefore not generally used in clinical settings .
Several methods for assessing promoter methylation status have been reported [ 9-16 ] , but the most widely used is Methylation-Specific PCR ( MSP ) analysis after bisulphite treatment [ 17 ] .
This method however is not quantitative and bears a significant risk of false positive and false negative results [ 12 , 18 , 19 ] .
Because the PCA analysis identified no significant difference between expression profiles from patients with early and late OA , we pooled data from these two cohorts and performed supervised Wilcoxon 's ranksum tests to identify unique proteins with differential abundance between the healthy and OA groups .
This method identified a subset of 18 of the 342 total proteins analysed that met our cutoff value for differential expression ( P < 0.00001 ; Figure 2 and Table 2 ) .
We therefore made an analysis in 5 kbp sliding windows along the multiple genome alignment to identify the most phylogenetically incongruent regions ( see Material and Methods ) .
This method identified two large regions of very strong incongruence , one centred around rfb ( Figure S8 ) , the operon involved in O antigen synthesis , and the other around the leuX tRNA gene , and including fimA , which is under diversifying selection and is involved in the adhesion of bacteria to host cells [ 66 ] .
We use the detection algorithm based on simulated annealing , which aims at maximizing the modularity of a partition , and which finds the number of modules automatically [ 8 ] .
This method identifies 3 modules , and we compare the partitions with a 3-class MixNet partition ( Figure 4 ) .
Mutation Miner approaches the problem differently .
This method identifies and relates proteins , organisms , and point mutations using NLP analysis at a sentence level .
A useful method of integrated analysis of expression data within an interaction network is the ActivePaths algorithm [ 5 ] .
This method identifies contiguous pathways or subnetworks that are active ( induced or repressed relative to randomly selected subnetworks ) in subsets of the expression data .
The entire core and complete kinomes were clustered using the probabilistic method described by Samanta and Liang [ 28 ] .
This method identifies functional relationships between proteins through redundancy of interaction partners .
In addition to this indirect method , we used a direct assay which measures the ability of peptides to promote the entry of a hydrophobic fluorescent probe ( 1-N-phenylnaphthylamine ; NPN ) into the cell membrane .
This method identifies potent permeabilizers as those causing rapid NPN uptake leading to a high level of fluorescence .
Our theoretical approach suggests a method for understanding the combined effect of changes in the expression of multiple genes on the activity of metabolic pathways , and consequently on the adaptation of cellular metabolism to heat shock .
This method identifies quantitative design principles that facilitate understating the response of the cell to stress .
Excluding non-core ß-sheet residues from the ß-sheet fraction makes sense in view of the large variety of dihedral angles assigned as ß-sheet by the DSSP algorithm .
This method improves the general prediction of the remaining secondary structures .
The Delphi method facilitates communication between and among a panel of experts , so that the process is effective and the group as a whole can deal with a complex problem [ 26 ] .
This method improves the generation of critical ideas by structured collection of information and processing of the collective input from a panel of geographically dispersed experts [ 27 ] .
Due to the methodology of the GeneFishing technique , we mainly amplify regions of the mRNA close to the polyA tail and the 3 ' UTR region of the transcript , which is not the most informative for identification of the gene , as it contains non-coding sequence .
This method in combination with the lack of the sequence information when studying a non-model organism can lead to difficulties with gene identification .
For instance , time-series expression data were used to determine which genes were active at certain phases and then combined with ChIP-chip data using a trace-back algorithm to identify active TFs at these phases ( Luscombe et al , 2004 ) .
This method in effect identified an ordered series of static regulatory graphs , but its direct connection with the dynamics of observed gene expression patterns is less clear .
In this work , we present a new microarray-based high-throughput screening approach to identifying candidate marker mRNAs for early detection of epithelial cells diluted in peripheral blood cells .
This method included : direct comparison of different samples of colon mucosa and blood cells , searching for epithelial-specific genes among the 20,000 genes assayed by microarray slides ; identification of candidate marker mRNAs by data analysis , which allowed for only 10 putative differentially expressed genes ; selection of some of the most suitable mRNAs ( TMEM69 , RANBP3 and PRSS22 ) that were assayed in blood samples from normal subjects and patients with colon cancer as possible markers for the presence of epithelial cells in the blood , using RT-PCR .
Concurrent with the textbook-based identification of terms was the continuing effort to expand the vocabulary using a research data-driven approach .
This method included extensive evaluation of published biomedical research literature , as well as data with anatomical attributes that have been collected in scientific databases .
In this work , we present a new microarray-based high-throughput screening method to identifying candidate marker mRNAs for the early detection of epithelial cells diluted in peripheral blood cells .
This method includes 1. direct comparison of different samples of colonic mucosa and of blood cells to identify consistent epithelial-specific mRNAs from among 20,000 cDNA assayed by microarray slides ; 2. identification of candidate marker mRNAs by data analysis , which allowed selection of only 10 putative differentially expressed genes ; 3. Selection of some of the most suitable mRNAs ( TMEM69 , RANBP3 and PRSS22 ) that were assayed in blood samples from normal subjects and patients with colon cancer as possible markers for the presence of epithelial cells in the blood , using reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction ( RT-PCR ) .
For the evaluation of gene-gene and gene-environment interactions , we used the MDR method [ 23-26 ] .
This method includes a combined cross-validation / permutation-testing procedure that minimizes false-positive results that might otherwise result from multiple examinations of the data [ 27 ] .
Since baseline substraction is straightforward , we mainly focus on the baseline estimation procedure in different methods .
This method includes two steps to estimate baseline .
Here we present a novel approach to generate quasi-median networks for a set of aligned DNA sequences .
This method incorporates multistate characters by inferring virtual medians to connect them .
Other approaches have been developed for the analysis of MLST data and a method based on minimum-spanning trees is incorporated into the Bionumerics™ package [ 25 ] .
This method incorporates the BURST algorithm for closely-related STs , but links groups of related STs ( clonal complexes ) to each other through hypothetical missing intermediate STs , to produce a representation of the whole population in which all STs are linked .
The enzyme activity data obtained from the stopped-flow analysis are shown in Table 1 .
This method indicated that the acetaldehyde-modified enzyme is about one-third as active as the native CA II ( considering the specificity constant kcat / Km ) .
BRNI is based on our method to infer biochemical models of single gene regulation [ 15 ] .
This method infers a set of regulators needed to explain the observed expression levels , and for each such regulator it learns a temporal activity profile rj ( t ) , representing its activity levels over time .
Meiotic outcome groupMaternal age groupNumber of observed eventsFrequency of observed number recombinantsFrequency of the number inferred exchanges01=201=2MIYoung ( < 29 yrs ) 1750.700.200.100.470.320.21Mid ( 29-34 yrs ) 1970.560.350.100.180.640.19Old ( > 34 yrs ) 2430.640.270.090.270.490.24MIIYoung ( < 29 yrs ) 58-0.660.34-0.220.78Mid ( 29-34 yrs ) 69-0.780.22-0.510.49Old ( > 34 yrs ) 126-0.810.19-0.570.44EuploidAll Ages1520.520.390.090.200.500.30To obtain a better representation of the pattern of exchange at the four strand stage of meiosis and to be able to compare patterns among meiotic outcome groups ( i.e. , MI , “MII” and euploid ) , we performed a tetrad analysis .
This method infers exchange patterns from the recombination observed within each meiotic outcome group and within each age group ( see Materials and Methods ) .
Here we have developed a new method of estimating the error rate of curated sequence annotations , and applied this to the Gene Ontology ( GO ) sequence database ( GOSeqLite ) .
This method involved artificially adding errors to sequence annotations at known rates , and used regression to model the impact on the precision of annotations based on BLAST matched sequences .
Among these approaches , the Affymetrix GeneChip® Mapping Assay [ 18 , 19 ] is increasingly used for detecting CNVs in human DNA .
This method involves a whole genome sampling analysis ( WGSA ) combined with high-density SNP genotyping oligonucleotide arrays .
The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays are the most commonly used antibody detection method .
This method involves coating the detection plate with the antigen of interest and allowing serum antibodies to bind to protein for later labeling and detection .
Alonzo and Pepe recently described another method for computing the AUC of a continuous screening test in the presence of verification bias .
This method involves computing the sensitivity and specificity for each observed value of the screening test , but again is straightforward to implement [ 10 ] .
Genotyping for the single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) at aa19 , aa50 , aa62 , aa133 , and aa219 in SP-A1 and aa9 , aa91 , aa223 in SP-A2 were done using a sequence specific primer-PCR methodology described by Pantelidis et al. [ 25 ] .
This method involves high stringency PCR amplification using allele-specific primers designed with the final 3 ' end nucleotide complementary to the nucleotide variants within a particular SNP locus .
To this end , a conservative analysis using multiple random validation [ 34 ] is proposed .
This method involves multiple random splits of the training and test samples .
Bulk-segregant analysis was performed using pooled DNA from siblings and mutants .
This method involves PCR with a set of 192 polymorphic simple-sequence repeat markers ( oligonucleotide primers targeted to unique sequences flanking dinucleotide repeats of variable length [ 46 ] ) .
Cleavage specific to the elongation complex has been quantified using ternary complex analysis .
This method involves radioactively labeling the complex by in vitro transcription followed by determining the extent of linearization by electrophoresis in an agarose gel .
Recently , a new approach for identifying substrates of protein kinases has applied the miniaturized format of functional protein arrays to characterize phosphorylation for thousands of candidate protein substrates in a single experiment .
This method involves the addition of protein kinases in solution to arrays of immobilized proteins to identify substrates using highly sensitive radioactive detection and hit identification algorithms .
We have thus shown that cell ELISA is a sensitive technique for the differential diagnosis of TBM from PTPM .
This method involves the demonstration of active antibody production by cells , particularly those derived from the affected site [ 16 ] .
At baseline the PulseCO was calibrated using the lithium dilution technique as previously described and according to manufacturer 's instructions [ 8 ] .
This method involves the placing of 0.3 mmols of lithium chloride in an indwelling central venous line and then the rapid flushing of this line with 20 ml of 0.9 % saline .
The original Haseman-Elston method [ 6 ] is a general model-free method for testing linkage between candidate markers and quantitative trait loci on a sample of sib-pairs .
This method involves the regression of the squared trait difference D2 = ( X1 - X2 ) 2 ) in pairs of siblings on the number of alleles shared IBD between each sib pair at a given marker .
Pulse wave analysis ( PWA ) will be used to derive a central ( ascending aortic ) pressure waveform via applanation tonometry at the radial artery [ 38 ] to determine central pulse pressure and AIx as a composite measure of arterial stiffness .
This method involves uses a generalised transfer function to transform the radial pressure waveform .
Pulse wave analysis ( PWA ) will be used to derive a central ( ascending aortic ) pressure waveform via applanation tonometry .
This method involves using a generalised transfer function to generate a central pressure waveform , which we have shown to be valid [ 27 ] .
The method of canonical discriminant analysis was applied for the study of the relationships between the different techniques .
This method is a dimension-reduction technique related to principal component analysis and canonical correlation , in which linear combinations of the quantitative variables are found which provide maximal separation between the classes or groups , the five fibre types in our case .
Bladder and tumor physiology was followed in a time course study using this method at each time point , for each animal .
This method is a dual spin-echo technique modified from a MSME ( Multi-Slice Multi-Echo ) technique designed to yield anatomical T1 and T2 weighted images for each slice position in the slice package .
In contrast , for S SNPs , a gene-based analysis simply considers the S cumulative sums of rank-ordered single SNP association chi-squared statistics ( S1 , S1+S2 , S1+S2+S3 , ... ) and evaluates significance via permutation , which also corrects for having tested S different ranked sum scores .
This method is a gene-based implementation of Ott & Hoh 's [ 106 ] method that utilizes sum-statistics .
We have developed an unsupervised approach to identifying coordinately acting biomarkers using heterogeneous microarray data , which can be generalized to any set of gene expression data regardless of the platform on which they were generated .
This method is a ground-up approach that first determines the extent of the information available in a set of array data through a discretization step to classify samples and initialize patterns .
We applied the two-class unpaired method from the SAM package to test the null hypothesis of no effect of viral compared to control injection across 18 replicates ( 3 biological × 2 technical dye-swap × 3 within slide as each gene is present in triplicate ) .
This method is a nonparametric test that call significant genes based on the comparison of the experimental score d ( i ) to its expected value calculated from N random permutations between treated and untreated sample data ( random assignment of treatment ) .
Using SC17 ( 0 ) as the initial recipient for ? Red-promoting modifications it is subsequently possible to transfer the marked mutation to other P. ananatis strains of interest using the method of electro-transformation with chromosomal DNA .
This method is a unique way to combine the set of marked mutations constructed in different P. ananatis strains into a single strain .
We then estimate this integral using a method we developed called the Uniform Distance Method ( UDM ) .
This method is a variant on importance sampling and involves a combination of either quadrature or exact integration and sampling of the membership vectors , Z. The idea behind the method is to use P ( Z|? = , x ) where is the MLE of ? to provide information on the important groupings , i.e. , which chromosome arms are likely to be clustered together .
Here a culture-independent , environmental PCR survey approach was used to examine Cyanidiales species composition in nature .
This method is a very efficient approach to facilitate the discovery of uncultivated cryptic species , particularly for unicellular microbes that may lack distinguishing morphological characters [ 6 , 16 ] .
BIG-PI is the first publicly released method for GPI-anchor prediction , and the predictions are made by four kingdom-specific predictors [ 10 , 12 , 13 ] .
This method is able to recognize only half of the submitted GPI-anchored proteins while maintaining a false positive rate as low as 0.3 % .
The MRF-SSCP technique has been developed and preliminarily used for screening other types of mutations .
This method is able to screen mutation in a long cDNA fragment ( > 1 kb ) amplified by nested PCR and it is feasible to use for mutation screening in the entire sequence of PKD1 cDNA , reducing the numbers of PCR reactions and SSCP gels required for the analysis .
Before analysis , each sample was prepared by oxidative digestion in a mixed solution with concentrated nitric and perchloric acids , using an automated system with a Tecator 1012 Controller and 1016 Digester heating unit .
This method is accredited ( NS-EN ISO / IEC 170225 ) .
We have successfully used this method to produce multiple mutants with no antibiotic gene on the genome or extra sequence except those nucleotides required for expression of epitope regions .
This method is advantageous over other protocols in that it does not require cloning or creating extra duplicate regions to facilitate homologous recombination , contains a universal construct in which an epitope of choice can be placed to check for cell surface expression , and shows high efficiency when screening for positive mutants .
The approach is based on mismatch-specific selective reactions of mismatched DNA cleavage by endonuclease and separation of the PCR product fragments by capillary electrophoresis .
This method is also adaptable to automated capillary electrophoresis which could increase its speed , sensitivity , and reproducibility , making it suitable for large-scale and high-throughput mutation screening .
On the basis of this classification a covariant discriminant algorithm was proposed [ 8 ] to predict subcellular location of a query protein .
This method is also based on amino-acid composition and the results obtained through self-consistency , jacknife and independent dataset tests indicate the improved accuracy rate .
We apply this method to various networks such as the E. coli transcriptional regulatory network , the macaque cortex network , a foodweb network and the Buchnera aphidicola metabolic network .
This method is also compared with other approaches such as module identification or hierarchical clustering .
The SNaPshot technique is particularly well-suited for the screening of mitochondrial DNA variants for the following reasons : i ) the short intron-less mitochondrial genes means that the entire gene can be PCR-amplified and screened in a single PCR fragment and ii ) homoplasmic mutations ( such as the ones investigated in the present study ) are represented as a single peak at each locus which simplifies the analysis .
This method is also less labour-intensive and less prone to false positives compared to the other methods reported to date .
So while this approach is conceptually and numerically simple , it does not provide dimension reduction , does not take into account the continuity of the underlying trajectories , and is subject to measurement errors in the predictors .
This method is also not amenable to global significance analysis , as one encounters a multiple testing problem when dealing with the many separate regressions ( and their associated coefficients of determination ) .
While we used AceView for redefining probe sets , the method of regrouping probes can be applied using any public or " in-house " database , and the guidelines provided here for creating a viable " probe set " should be generally applicable .
This method is also particularly relevant with the recently developed exon arrays which have genome-wide probe content specific to individual exons , observed or predicted .
In our method , the inversion could be detected by including the reverse complementary sequences in the sequence set .
This method is also practically applicable in terms of computing time and convenience to use .
Focus groups are a data collection method appropriate for research that seeks to explore a range of people 's opinions , experiences and feelings , in a group , without any goal of conformity or consensus [ 28 ] .
This method is also recommended for children to capture their perspectives , original ideas and experiences [ 29 ] .
A second drawback is that the need for hand-eye-mouse coordination can introduce some additional variability , although this was relatively mild with the present data as both the line and outline method had similar coefficients of variation and within-sample variability .
This method is also relatively fast since structures do not have to be carefully delineated , and the only calculation involves background subtraction .
When using numerous species , their phylogenetic proximities can be analyzed using their signatures by conventional statistical methods and the set of species split into subgroups .
This method is also useful in combining information from different genes .
In order to estimate the prevalence of EIB in Tunisian athletes we chose to use a method for evaluating the respiratory condition of athletes , the most common is the change in FEV1 before and after exercise .
This method is among the most widely used , and allows the study of a large number of individuals and avoids the task of recruiting subjects for laboratory testing .
In this paper we describe a fieldable genotyping method for B. anthracis and Y. pestis .
This method is an adaptation on Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer of previously described 25 loci MLVA .
SNPs and INDELS discovered by this approach have been publicly deposited in NCBI 's SNP repository dbSNP .
This method is an attractive bioinformatics tool for uncovering breed-by-probe interactions , for rapidly identifying expressed SNPs , for investigating potential functional correlations between gene expression and breed polymorphisms , and is robust enough to be used on any Affymetrix gene expression platform .
A probe level model for analysis of GeneChip gene expression data is presented which identified more than 10,000 single-feature polymorphisms between two barley genotypes , with a high sensitivity .
This method is applicable to all oligonucleotide microarray data .
In this paper , we describe a rigorous statistical approach for detecting differentially abundant features ( taxa , pathways , subsystems , etc. ) between clinical metagenomic datasets .
This method is applicable to both high-throughput metagenomic data and to 16S rRNA surveys .
There are no other false positives by either method .
This method is applied to Replicates 1 , 32 , 54 , and 85 .
Since this method does not need pre-defined target gene sets , it requires no threshold selection for binding affinity scores or gene expression changes .
This method is applied to three different data sets in which the gene expression data are integrated with ChIP-chip data , motif discovery data and motif scanning data , respectively .
In the second method - modified GEE ( 2 ) , the increased variability of the sandwich standard error estimator was accounted for by building the confidence interval for the treatment effect based on the quantiles from the t-distribution with 2 ( J-1 ) degree of freedom .
This method is appropriate only for CRTs with matched pair design [ 2 ] .
Seven mutations were determined by allele-specific polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) based on the method of Wilson et al. [ 17 ] .
This method is as accurate as the dot blot procedure [ 17 ] ; therefore , it is sensitive enough to detect a mutation in only one CYP21A2 gene if more than two copies of the gene are present .
DNA is detected and analysed using readily available camera equipment and image analysis software .
This method is as sensitive as [ 3H ] thymidine prelabelling of cells and allows DNA dsb to be measured simply and economically in non-cycling cells .
We performed a bivariate analysis of cholesterol and triglyceride levels on sib-pair data from the Framingham Heart Study using a method recently developed by Wang [ 1 ] .
This method is asymptotically equivalent to the likelihood ratio statistic , but is straightforward to calculate .
We developed a new method ( GRAPPA-IR ) to handle inverted repeats .
This method is available online from .
The PBC analysis pipeline offers an efficient and objective method for classifying large amount of miRNAs .
This method is base on the branch stability in the bootstrap trees derived from overlapping input sets of genome-wide miRNA precursor sequences .
Recently , an automated method for the analysis and prediction of buried and exposed residues of TM proteins with an impressive prediction accuracy of 80 % was developed by Beuming and Weinstein [ 23 ] .
This method is based on a new amino acid surface propensity ( SP ) scale derived from membrane protein structures and evolutionary conservation of buried and exposed residues .
In addition , we propose a method called shared summation ( SHS ) , by which the probabilistic output of a multi-class group is shared equally by each class ( Figure 4b ) .
This method is based on a probabilistic decision process using probabilistic outputs from binary classifiers .
In the following , we present a sensitive and quantitative method for the flow cytometric detection of influenza A virus infection with monoclonal antibodies in adherent MDCK cells fixed in ethanol and PFA / ethanol .
This method is based on a ready-to-use mixture of fluorochrome-labelled murine monoclonal antibodies against human influenza virus strain A ( H1N1 ) NP and matrix protein 1 ( M1 ) .
A new method , developed in our institute , is introduced in order to detect temperature in human pulmonary epithelium , in vivo .
This method is based on a thermography catheter , which passes the biopsy channel of the fiber optic bronchoscope .
An automatic tracking algorithm was developed to reduce human error .
This method is based on active contours — flexible curves that can be used to automatically capture the cell boundary .
We propose an online phenotype discovery method for high-throughput RNAi screen , which can be used in the course of many image-based screens .
This method is based on adaptive phenotype modelling and iterative cluster merging using improved gap statistics .
In real-time PCR data analysis , the cycle threshold ( CT ) method is currently the gold standard .
This method is based on an assumption of equal PCR efficiency in all reactions , and precision may suffer if this condition is not met .
We propose a new method that improves the accuracy of the predictions achieved by the phylogenetic approaches tested here ( see Methods ) or the five methods based on network analyses .
This method is based on combining critical residues predicted by closeness centrality and by one phylogenetic approach ( ConSeq server , [ 18 ] ) .
A second method removes all subjectivity from the process and gives an estimate based on the data set in its entirety rather than on a day by day evaluation of the difference between two peaks .
This method is based on cross-correlation analysis [ 37 ] .
We have presented a method to estimate the score distributions of RNA helices or single strand profiles and of their combinations into larger motifs .
This method is based on discrete convolutions .
We have presented an algorithm to align multiple sequences and reconstruct the phylogenies that minimize the alignment score .
This method is based on efficient algorithms to solve the median problem of three sequences .
SNP genotyping was performed by the Taqman method ( Applied Biosystems , Foster City , CA ) .
This method is based on four primers , two flanking the SNP that are used to amplify the DNA surrounding the SNP and two that were labeled with different fluorescent dyes , one for each alternative allele .
We have recently reported on an alternative transcriptome amplification method that minimises differences in transcript length in the amplification step [ 3 , 4 ] .
This method is based on fragmentation of the mRNA ( cDNA ) population followed by isolation of a unique , short and representative 3'end tag of each transcript prior to amplification by PCR .
Here we propose and describe a new strategy and method used to isolate SINEs and LINEs rapidly , in which library construction and screening is completely eliminated .
This method is based on hybridization capture of repetitive elements from digested genomic DNA in solution using biotinylated oligonucleotide probes which have been pre-attached to streptavidin magnetic beads .
Recently , novel method termed as array-based comparative genomic hybridization ( array CGH ) has been described , which enables high throughput quantitative measurement of high-resolution DNA copy number changes throughout the genome [ 8 ] .
This method is based on hybridization of differentially labeled test and reference DNAs to an array of mapped human genomic DNA fragments ( ~100-200 kb ) and has been recently applied to human and mouse tumors [ 9-14 ] .
The analysis was carried out with Diverge ( version 2.0 ) [ 28 ] .
This method is based on maximum likelihood procedures to estimate significant changes in the rate of evolution after the emergence of two paralogous sequences .
To estimate the level of functional divergence and predict important amino acid residues for these functional differences among OPR subfamilies , the coefficients of type-I and type-II functional divergence ( ?I and ?II ) between any two clusters were calculated for each position in the alignment ( Additional file 3 ) , using the method suggested by Gu et. al. ( 1999 , 2006 ) [ 38 , 77 ] , as implemented in the DIVERGE v2.0 package [ 36 ] .
This method is based on maximum likelihood procedures to estimate significant changes in the site-specific shift of evolutionary rate or site-specific shift of amino acid properties after the emergence of two paralogous sequences .
To compare with existing methods , prediction are also done with the PSIPRED program ( version 2.45 ) [ 4 ] , using the single-sequence mode .
This method is based on neural networks and sequence profiles generated by PSI-BLAST .
We have presented a new approach to non-parametric inference of demographic history from an inferred genealogy .
This method is based on reversible jump MCMC sampling of the population size function Ne ( t ) .
Recently Bockhorst et al. [ 26 ] proposed a very accurate method for predicting operons , promoters and terminators in E. coli .
This method is based on sequence as well as expression data , but requires prior knowledge of coordinates of every ORF in the genome .
The traditional method for functional analysis of antigen-specific CTLs is the cytotoxic T cell lysis assay .
This method is based on the ability of CTLs to lyse target cells bearing the appropriate MHC and peptide antigen in vitro .
A further reduction in total within-group variance can be achieved by using the ratio method described in this report .
This method is based on the Affymetrix comparative analysis algorithm , which was designed for comparisons between two arrays .
Variance-component univariate linkage analysis implemented in SOLAR ( 1.7.4 ) [ 8 ] was used for heritability estimation , and two-point and multipoint linkage analyses .
This method is based on the assumption of a multivariate normal distribution for the traits tested , and a violation of the assumption may result in inflated type I error rates [ 9 , 10 ] .
Fibrillation intervals have been used as an index of local refractoriness and shown to correlate well with the local atrial and ventricular refractoriness determined using extrastimulus technique in animal [ 4 , 6-8 ] and human subjects [ 5 , 9 ] in serval previous studies .
This method is based on the assumption that during fibrillation , cells are reexcited by one of many multiple wavelet as soon as their refractoriness ends and recovers their excitablity .
In this article we present a computational method for annotating gene expression pattern images .
This method is based on the bag-of-words approach in which invariant visual features are first extracted from local patches on the images , and they are then quantized to form the bag-of-words representation of the original images .
Two dimensional strain ( 2D strain ) , the most recent technique , has lately been proposed for obtaining velocities and deformation of the myocardial walls as an alternative to Doppler sampling .
This method is based on the estimation of vectorial velocities instead of the analysis of the long component along the lines of the image .
Therefore , a complementary approach which monitors influx only was pursued , by using the Mn2+-quenching technique in single intact amoebae .
This method is based on the fact that many Ca2+-channels are permeable to Mn2+ [ 16 ] and that the Ca2+-indicator Fura2 binds Mn2+ with high affinity .
In view of the aforementioned lack of annotation of the small ORFs , and to improve localization techniques for TA systems , we developed a simple method for identifying all potential TA systems in a given bacterial genome : Rapid Automated Scan for Toxins and Antitoxins in Bacteria ( RASTA-Bacteria ) .
This method is based on the genomic features associated with toxins and antitoxins and the existence of conserved functional domains .
To discard tags that are likely to have been generated by sequencing errors , we implemented Colinge and Feger 's method [ 22 ] .
This method is based on the hypothesis that each tag has the same probability to contain an error .
To gain further insight into the transcriptional response to the deletion of SDH3 , we integrated the transcriptome data with the genome-scale yeast metabolic model [ 16 ] and thus identified so-called reporter metabolites [ 14 ] ( methods ) .
This method is based on the hypothesis that expression of genes encoding enzymes must be coordinated in order to satisfy the metabolic demands of the cell and corresponding stoichiometric constraints .
To address this , we utilized a method for expanding the set of terms associated with a given GO node .
This method is based on the idea that the presence of words that are strongly associated with a GO node label are good indicators of that GO node , in addition to the terms that occur in the node label itself .
Recently , we have introduced a new automated method for the estimation of the plasma total antioxidant capacity [ 33 ] .
This method is based on the inhibition of oxidation by plasma of an exogenously added marker ( crocin ) by an added pro-oxidant ( ABAP ) .
For that purpose , the relative quantification of reverse transcription-PCR ( RT-PCR ) data is the method of choice to ascertain gene expression results [ 1 , 2 ] .
This method is based on the normalization of the target gene expression on any stably expressed internal reference gene , a so-called " housekeeping " gene , measured in the same biological material .
We then combined the results of the 10 primary genome scans using Fisher 's method of combining p-values [ 4 ] .
This method is based on the observation that if n independent tests are made of the same hypothesis , then we can calculate a combined p-value for all n tests by , where pi is the significance level for study i .
To facilitate automated SNP discovery or typing , the SearchSnps method will generate output as shown in Figure 2 .
This method is based on the PolyPhred program and uses the ' rank ' argument to set the stringency .
Glucose transport was measured in isolated adipocytes by determining the uptake of D- [ 14C ( U ) ] -glucose ( NEN Life Sciences ) at trace concentrations using our modification of the method of Kashiwagi et al. [ 50 ] .
This method is based on the premise that glucose uptake provides a measure of glucose transport when studies are carried out at very low glucose concentrations .
We present a novel statistical approach that allows regulatory DNA to be distinguished from coding and non-coding non-regulatory regions according to its " fluffiness " values .
This method is based on the presence of unusually high number of short runs of over-represented scattered words in the given DNA sequence .
To identify groups of cytokines that allow the distinction of potential outcomes in patients with early arthritis , we used a classification algorithm termed Random Forest [ 17 , 18 ] .
This method is based on the principal of decision trees and incorporates efficient methods to establish the importance of each cytokine in the classification and to perform an unbiased estimate of classification error .
To estimate the deletion rate , we used the maximum likelihood approach proposed by Petrov et al. [ 41 , 42 ] .
This method is based on the relative ratio of deletions versus nucleotide substitutions .
Perez-Castellano et al reported a new mapping approach to help localize the atrial insertion of AcP by reproducing the atrial activation sequence during orthodromic tachycardia through atrial pacing at the mapping catheter [ 12 ] .
This method is based on the relative timing of activation between two stable reference electrograms , used to estimate the atrial activation sequence during tachycardia and during pacing ( Figure 2 ) .
We have developed an innovative technique that allows us to monitor globally the in vivo thiol status of cellular proteins upon variations in the redox homeostasis of the cells .
This method is based on the sequential reaction of two variants of the thiol-modifying reagent iodoacetamide ( IAM ) with accessible cysteine residues in proteins ( Figure 1 ) .
A direct significance analysis to select genes from microarray data ( SAM ) was proposed by Tusher et al. [ 17 ] .
This method is based on t-like ( in the case of two conditions ) or F-like statistics .
In a previous work , MVW-PCA was introduced as a new approach of application of PCA on dynamic PET images using various compounds , among others [ 11C ] -PIB [ 5 ] .
This method is based on using noise prenormalized data that represents whole brain of each time sequence ( frame ) as a single variable after the background had been removed ( masked out ) before applying PCA .
In this study , Pyrosequencing was adapted to measure the frequency of alleles in an erythrocytic vaccine candidate antigen MSP-119 and combined with a haplotype-estimating algorithm to estimate the frequency of MSP-119haplotypes in infected individuals .
This method is being used to understand the natural dynamics of MSP-119 , at both population and individual levels , at a malaria vaccine-testing site in Bandiagara , Mali , and can be used to monitor populations during large-scale vaccine trials to determine allele-specific vaccine efficacy .
We first performed the comparison with the individual method used in ProFunc that most closely matches our own , PEAS .
This method is both conceptually and methodologically similar to our own , with the major difference being the source of the input used to build the motifs : PEAS uses the available literature on catalytic sites , which is highly desirable for accuracy but due to the current paucity of such literature is much less so for usability , while ETA instead predicts functional residues by the well-known and experimentally-validated ET approach , which we hoped would provide similar levels of accuracy and much greater availability .
For the reasons briefly mentioned in the Introduction , the Item Response Theory [ 8 ] was our primary model for analysis of the questionnaire resulting from the interviews with stoma patients .
This method is built around the idea that the probability of a patient 's answer when confronted with a certain item ideally can be described as a simple function of the patient 's position on a latent trait ( e.g. , quality of life ) plus one or more parameters characterising the particular item ( e.g. , its " severity " or " importance " or " weight " ) .
The final method for indel coding is also described by Simmons and Ochoterena [ 16 ] .
This method is called complex indel coding .
Besides the traditional analysis methods , the motif discovery algorithms can also be used to find possible TFBSs in the promoter regions of homologous gene sets .
This method is called phylogenetic footprinting [ 6 ] , and an important prerequisite of it is to collect as many orthologous promoter sequences as possible [ 7 ] .
After comparison , we adopted the method from Guimerà and Amaral [ 21 , 22 ] to identify modules in metabolic networks in chloroplasts and photosynthetic bacteria ( see detailed description in the " Methods " section ) .
This method is called the SA module-detection algorithm in the remainder of the text .
The computer simulation technique has been developed by Smith [ 8 ] in late 80s at Stanford University .
This method is called waveguide modeling and it has been successfully used in modeling musical instruments , allowing one to perform waveguide sound synthesis using the models [ 9 , 10 ] .
As most of the existing domain-based methods consider only single-domain pairs and assume independence between domain-domain interactions , Xue-Wen et al. [ 18 ] introduced a domain-based random forest of decision trees to infer protein interactions .
This method is capable of exploring all possible domain interactions and making predictions based on all the protein domains .
We have introduced an improved method of searching for protein structures with similar folds using tableaux , incorporating constraints on the distances between SSEs to improve accuracy .
This method is capable of finding either matches of an entire structure to the query , or matches where the query is a substructure of a larger structure .
The data support and validate this rapid , simple , noninvasive method , which includes video image analysis and frequency analysis .
This method is capable of measuring the heart rate and heartbeat regularity simultaneously via the analysis of caudal blood flow in zebrafish embryos .
To estimate the CIs for the mean difference between the groups , we used parameter estimates of repeated measures multilevel analysis in MLwiN [ 28 ] .
This method is characterized by an unrestricted repeated measurements design , allowing all observations to be used .
The principle of this method is to calculate the second derivative of the likelihood , and to select the number of classes for which this derivative exceeds a threshold , which is set to 0.5 in practice .
This method is close to the L-curve method [ 12 ] .
The computational expression analysis methods developed here are not limited to the identification of IL-8 related genes , but can also be applied to many other proteins of interest .
This method is complementary to other large-scale expression analysis methods ( e.g. microarray ) in that it is not limited by the physical presence of a gene on microarray , thus it offers an unique approach to discovering potential functional links between genes through expression profiling .
The most commonly used approach is implementation of the expectation-maximization ( EM ) algorithm [ 10 ] .
This method is computationally intensive and is usually combined with various strategies to simplify the task ( i.e. , by considering only subsets of the sites at a time ) or to minimize the number of potential haplotypes that must be considered [ 11 , 12 ] .
Consequently , the user may choose to use another allocation algorithm such as the reciprocal allocation method .
This method is conceptually appealing because it recognizes the simultaneous interaction of service departments rather than the somewhat arbitrary , one directional relationship the step-down method assumes [ 12 ] .
Prediction of transcription factor binding sites by searching for gene sequences conserved across species , an approach called phylogenetic footprinting [ 31 ] , has been developed recently as a tool for analysis of genomes [ 32 ] .
This method is considered more reliable than searching for binding sites based on sequence from one species alone , since many of such identified sites can not be shown to be biologically relevant .
Associated with PCA , this method allowed successful discrimination of urine samples spiked or not with low fentomole / µl synthetic peptides used as pseudo-biomarkers .
This method is currently being applied to the discovery phase of potential urine biomarkers of graft rejection in kidney transplant patients .
New techniques , such as the polymerase chain reaction amplification of bisulfite-modified DNA , have enabled the study of patterns of DNA methylation .
This method is currently being improved and adapted for cancer cell identification , profiling of tumor-suppressor-gene expression , and prognostic factors that are linked to CpG island hypermethylation [ 128-130 ] .
Handling of the mastectomy specimens was based on the correlated radiographic and pathologic technique developed by Egan , which has been routinely performed in our pathology department for many years [ 17 ] .
This method is described in detail elsewhere [ 18 ] .
These data were corrected for under-registration through a method developed by the Centro Latino-Americano de Demografia ( CELADE ) and adopted by PAHO [ 7 ] .
This method is described in detail in the CELADE technical document [ 7 ] .
The proposed method is used along with the Best-Fit Extension problem .
This method is described in detail in the Methods section .
We developed a new analytical method called invariant analysis to define the significant copy number changes .
This method is designed to : i ) increase the power of the analysis by combining all the cases in our dataset to define an invariant population ( unchanged population ) ; and , ii ) to address the signal to noise differences among individual cases due to sample and hybridization variability .
The basic experiential method invites students to engage in an experience , to create some learning from it , and then through a process of structured reflection to identify what it is that each has learned and to apply this new knowledge thereby expanding the repertoire of possible solutions .
This method is designed to aid the review and exploration of attitudes and assumptions , discovery of differences , and consideration of the implications of personal attitudes and emotions for professional behaviour and communication .
To the summary statistic approaches we added the coalescence-based maximum-likelihood method of Galtier et al. [ 16 ] .
This method is designed to detect a distortion in the shape of gene genealogies generated by a diversity-reducing event ( hitchhiking or bottleneck ) .
A fast structural comparison algorithm allows the rapid scanning of one or more protein structures with the library looking for local structural similarities .
This method is designed to help in functional annotation in difficult cases .
The most common technique used for survival analysis is IHC , which qualitatively determines protein levels based on intensity of immunostaining .
This method is difficult to standardize and can not provide a measure of enzyme activity .
We have previously reported our experience with a new , simple and practical , yet standardized , tissue fixation and processing method that preserves histomorphology and protects macromolecules at ambient temperature [ 4-9 ] .
This method is easily applicable to both clinical and research settings .
The method does not require a linear assumption , and has the desirable property of scale-invariance with respect to TF-specific binding affinity .
This method is easy to implement and can be routinely applied for transcriptional inferences in microarray studies .
Here , I present a method for computing the power of a genome-wide association study when a genetic model and sample size are specified and LD information is available for the population being studied .
This method is equivalent to the cumulative r2 adjusted power of Jorgenson and Witte [ 17 ] , which will be referred to as " power " for brevity .
In Table 1 we have also added an additional approach , denoted by l2 , the equivalent to the l1-regularization but using an l2-penalty instead of an l1-penalty on the coefficients of the log-linear model .
This method is equivalent to the MAP estimator with Gaussian priors on ßa , with the parameter of the distribution optimized by cross-validation .
Flow cytometry is a fluorescence-based technique commonly used to evaluate expression of cell surface and intracellular proteins .
This method is especially useful as it allows for single-cell analysis and can be utilized to determine the amount of receptor expressed by individual cells .
A method of choice is now emerging for the analysis of quantitative traits arising from selected sib pairs .
This method is essentially a regression through the origin of excess identical by descent ( IBD ) sharing on a function of the trait value , whose slope is an estimate of the linkage parameter .
Allele specific oligonucleotide ( ASO ) PCR is a very specific and sensitive technique for detection of known mutations ( 29 ) .
This method is even sensitive than mutation detection by sequencing of ABL ATP-binding domain ( 30 ) because DNA sequencing can only useful for point mutation detection when proportion of mutated cells is more than 30 % ( 21 ) .
Microvascular blood flow was measured using laser Doppler velocimetry ( Transonic® Laser Doppler Monitor , BLF21 , Maastricht , the Netherlands , and Peri Flux System 5000 , Perimed , Stockholm , Sweden ) , employing atechnique that quantifies the sum of the motion of the red blood cells in a specific volume .
This method is extensively applied in plastic surgery procedures and employs a fiberoptic probe carrying a beam of light .
In contrast to chromatin purified in sucrose-containing buffers , the minichromosomes obtained with this method are suitable for transcriptional analysis .
This method is fast , quantitative , flexible , can deal with several samples simultaneously and leads to concentration of the chromatin .
The SpectroTYPER™ software gathers the time-of-flight information and applies algorithms to provide accurate , automated genotype calling .
This method is fast and more accurate compared to hybridization-based methods of SNP detection [ 17 , 18 ] .
Previous approaches for summarizing Dirichlet Process mixture model components have used pairwise co-clustering probabilities as a similarity measure for input into an agglomerative clustering algorithm [ 14 ] .
This method is feasible if there are a relatively small number of items to be clustered , and we employ it for producing consensus tissue groups .
Our method for modeling dependencies is simply an extension of position independencies methods .
This method is formulated by simple mathematical calculations , and as will be shown , the proposed algorithm is very simple and substantially efficient , and can be easily implemented on any data sets .
In this paper , we analyse the capability of wavelet power spectrum in feature selection and we propose a method of feature selection based on Haar wavelet power spectrum .
This method is found fit for a wide range of data sets and also works with smaller number of samples .
The MCL algorithm ( inflation parameter 2.0 ) was applied to find clusters in this graph .
This method is fully automatic and protein clusters reported were not subjected to manual curation .
We conducted a case study based on the " success case method " described by Brinkerhoff [ 16 ] .
This method is geared for use in business and government settings to evaluate new projects , illustrate accomplishments , and identify best practices .
Biophysically-motivated elementary free-energies can be learned using SVM techniques to construct an energy cost function whose predictive performance rivals state-of-the-art .
This method is general and can be extended beyond the all-alpha case described here .
Here we report a highly accurate technique for inferring the major modes of structural correlation in macromolecules using likelihood-based statistical analysis of sets of structures .
This method is generally applicable to any ensemble of related molecules , including families of nuclear magnetic resonance ( NMR ) models , different crystal forms of a protein , and structural alignments of homologous proteins , as well as molecular dynamics trajectories .
Early attempts to value mortality risk reductions applied the human capital approach , which estimates the " value of life " as lost productivity .
This method is generally recognized as problematic and not based on modern welfare economics , where preferences for reducing death risks are not captured .
Overall the in silico method for identifying genes in a specific genomic region worked well here , yielding a reasonable gene density of one per 95 kb .
This method is highly dependent upon the quality of the information in dbEST .
Indeed , the SAGE method can be performed to accurately measure the abundance of both known and novel transcripts on global scale [ 13 ] .
This method is ideal to analyze a large number of transcripts in a given tissue , and it allows the quantitative cataloguing and comparison of expressed genes under various physiological and pathological states [ 13-15 ] .
To develop a reproducible and accurate method of gene expression analysis on synovial biopsies , we evaluated and validated real-time quantitative PCR ( Q-PCR ) on very small synovial tissue samples using a novel cell-based standard curve technique .
This method is ideally suited for small proof-of-concept clinical trials designed to determine a biomarker endpoint in arthritis .
Here we show that a transport lattice approach [ 9 ] can solve bioheat problems .
This method is illustrated by solving models for skin contact heating used in transcutaneous blood gas monitoring and for spatially distributed heating due to 10 GHz microwave radiation .
Efron 's local false discovery rate method [ 7 ] was applied to the FBAT results to identify significant markers after multiple comparison adjustments .
This method is implemented in the R package " locfdr " [ 8 ] .
Alternatively , a non-phylogenetic method , applying dynamic programming that minimizes the mutation and recombination cost between sequences was used .
This method is implemented in the software Recco [ 56 ] .
The authors introduce a framework that uses a technique called kernel density estimation to find the regions in the genome that show a significant increase in insertion density .
This method is implemented over a range of scales , allowing the data to be evaluated at any relevant scale .
cDNA microarray studies using T7 amplified RNA have shown that the technique yields reproducible results that correlate with the results obtained from using total RNA [ 2 , 9 , 11 ] .
This method is incompatible , however , with standard spotted oligonucleotide microarrays when combined with conventional reverse transcription based labeling methods .
In order to specify the number of rules in fuzzy system we utilize subtractive clustering approach .
This method is introduced bellow .
In this paper we present several applications of extensions of the method of Molitor et al. [ 1 ] .
This method is itself based on ideas introduced by Georgy Voronoi at the turn of the last century [ 2 ] .
Recently a new method for pooling sensitivity and specificity has been developed .
This method is known as the " bivariate model " [ 211 ] .
The SBL algorithm [ 18 , 19 , 24 ] is a general Bayesian framework to obtain sparse solutions utilizing linear models .
This method is known as type-II maximum likelihood method [ 24 ] , in which the solutions are obtained by maximizing the marginal likelihood .
So far , apart from exact algorithms evaluating the volume of the space of possible solutions , that are unsuitable for analyzing metabolic networks larger than some dozens metabolites [ 8 , 9 ] , the best technique allowing for such a characterization is based on Monte Carlo sampling ( MCS ) of the steady-state flux space [ 10-14 ] .
This method is known to perform very well on intermediate size metabolic networks ( up to a hundred of metabolites ) [ 10 , 11 ] where different strategies of MCS have been implemented giving comparable results .
Here , the neural gas clustering method is used with Pearson correlation similarity measure for computing cluster centroids .
This method is known to yield consistent high-quality clusters , regardless of centroid initialization [ 15 ] .
Shiraishi et al. [ 25 ] published a variable-order , variable-step Taylor-series method that can be used as an ODE solver providing a highly accurate calculation to compute dynamic sensitivities .
This method is limited to general mass action ( GMA ) models described by power-law differential equations .
Elston et al. [ 4 ] developed an algorithm that is efficient on pedigrees that have little inbreeding .
This method is linear in the number of individuals ( in case there is no inbreeding ) but scales with the number of possible multi-locus genotypes .
The test statistic of Xu et al. 's method is the weighted sum of the single marker test statistics and the weights were calculated by using the information of parental phenotypes .
This method is mainly developed for quantitative traits and requires parental phenotypes .
For each interaction , a corresponding method is generated .
This method is matched to a Gene Ontology term .
MLST analysis on Leptospira strains showed that the similar serovars and the serogroups of different species are not clustered together ( Figure 1 ) .
This method is more suitable in identifying the species of leptospires as indicated by the clustering patterns up to species level ( Figure 1 ) .
Genomic DNA gel blot analysis with probes derived from different ?SRKs was used to assess the composition of the S locus in various accessions of A. thaliana .
This method is more suitable than amplification by the polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) for our study because of the known or expected sequence divergence of the loci under study .
The human NAT2*4 , NAT2*5A , NAT2*5B , NAT2*5C , NAT2*6A and NAT2*7B alleles were identified by genotyping using the PCR-RFLP method of Hickman & Sim [ 30 ] , and Hickman et al. [ 31 ] .
This method is more than 95 % accurate at predicting the NAT2 phenotype in a Caucasian population [ 31 ] .
Disadvantages include : significant effort is required to optimize the technique ( duration and strength of pulse ) for each cell type , a relatively high degree of cell death is observed , and transfection efficiency is often low in comparison to other methods .
This method is most applicable to in vitro studies .
Accordingly , we developed a non-invasive technique for obtaining ECGs in conscious mice by placing the animal on a platform embedded with paw-sized ECG electrodes connected to an amplifier .
This method is much less traumatic , requires no anesthesia or surgery , and promotes rapid screening of large quantities of mice .
In this study , a direct method of lithium determination in erythrocytes was used .
This method is much more accurate and less variable compared to the indirect method of lithium determination [ 15 ] .
Second , the objective functions of clustering algorithms have been used to evaluate the algorithms .
This method is normally used when the classes are unknown .
Using a force-directed optimisation method , we were able to produce tree layouts in three-dimensions upon which the protein interactions could be projected .
This method is not guaranteed to find the globally optimal solution , so different random starting positions for nodes converge to different results .
Accurate interpretation of data obtained by unsupervised analysis of large scale expression profiling studies is currently frequently performed by visually combining sample-gene heatmaps and sample characteristics .
This method is not optimal for comparing individual samples or groups of samples .
In this approach the metabolic component of an acid-base disorder is quantified as the change in plasma bicarbonate concentration ( ? [ HCO3- ] ) [ 18 ] , which by Eqn 3 is also equal to ?SID .
This method is often sufficient and has been used successfully to diagnose and treat countless patients , but it has also been criticized as not strictly quantitative [ 19 , 20 ] .
To classify the exposure all measured values that were below this limit were replaced previous to the analysis by half of the limit ( 0.025 V / m ) .
This method is often used in context of environmental epidemiology and the results seem plausible , because all values have to be between 0 and the limit of determination [ 34 ] .
We describe here , in detail , a new analysis method that has been used to analyze the transcriptome in yeast [ 7 ] .
This method is original in several respects .
We evaluate the performances of a footprint discovery approach based on the detection of over-represented spaced motifs .
This method is particularly suitable for ( but not restricted to ) Bacteria , since such motifs are typically bound by factors containing a Helix-Turn-Helix domain .
PCR with product differentiation by melting curve analysis offers a cost-effective means of qualitative analysis for the presence of F. culmorum and F. graminearum in plant material .
This method is particularly suitable for epidemiological studies involving a large number of samples .
A more elaborate method built on PCA is explored in this study to utilize the directional information contained in the eigenvector corresponding to ?1 , named here as the PCC analysis as described in Section Methods .
This method is particularly suited for the pair-wise structural comparison .
By using the case of an abrupt and sustained reduction in the availability of heroin in Australia in January 2001 , we have shown that problems associated with applying standard ITSA can be overcome by : defining and dating such an event in ways that are not influenced by the outcomes to be modeled ; identifying appropriate indicator series to model ; fitting ITSA models to the data in ways that minimize the effects of researcher bias by using a prescriptive method to select functional depictions of the event and subsequently modifying these using appropriate transfer functions ; and evaluating plausible rival explanations of any changes observed in the time series so that these changes could be more confidently attributed to the unplanned event .
This method is particularly useful for unplanned and poorly understood events ( such as the heroin shortage ) which are of a size and nature that would be difficult or impossible to mimic experimentally , but whose consequences are of potentially great public health interest to researchers and policy makers .
In this method , the first step is to apply a clinical sample to standard culture media to see what grows [ 19 ] .
This method is powerful in that it presupposes little about the identity of the bacteria : it can distinguish among many bacteria with a single test , and often reveals the presence of species that were clinically unexpected .
Study treatment allocation ( dexamethasone respectively placebo ) will be done in a ratio 1 : 1 by the method of minimization ( Pocock and Simon 1975 ) considering two factors , study center and Glasgow coma scale ( dichotomized : = 8 , > 8 ) .
This method is preferred to a stratified block randomization because of the large number of strata ( at least 50 ) which could possibly induce pronounced imbalance between the treatment groups .
An alternative method is to use distance-based approaches , where distances are those measured between the centroids ( or the intensity gravity centres ) of the nuclear compartments of interest .
This method is probably most applicable to those compartments having simple focal distribution patterns and has been particularly useful in quantitating the degree of physical proximity between genomic loci involved in imprinting [ 49 ] , radiation-induced chromosomal rearrangements [ 50 ] , and chromosome translocations [ 51 , 52 ] .
We demonstrated a pretreatment method to collect well-characterized , viable , single cells without using fluorescent labels and without significant damage to the cells .
This method is quantitative , rapid , single-step , and yields cells of high purity , making it applicable for a variety of single-cell level analyses .
To address common difficulties associated with the AI analysis of primary tumors , we have recently developed a technique called ' counting alleles ' that is specifically designed for the analysis of archived clinical specimens [ 6 , 7 ] .
This method is quantitative and is not susceptible to PCR amplification bias or DNA degradation .
After the filtering step , the genes left for the analysis were 9593 , of which 1261 ( 13.2 % ) had between 1 and 4 missing values .
This method is quite naive and is presented just to have a static counterpart to compare with the other methods .
The easiest way to obtain a complete inspiratory V-P curve during one slow insufflation and without disconnecting the patient from the ventilator is to use the low flow inflation ( LFI ) technique .
This method is rapid , and it can be performed using a modern ventilator ; the ventilator ensures a constant inspiratory flow ( V ' ) , and the software and the screen allow the V-P curve to be observed and analyzed .
We confirm the utility of a semi-automated method of RNA extraction ( nucleic acid preparation by the ABI PRISM 6100 system , followed by a precipitation step ) which allowed us to obtain a standard amount of total RNA from 1 mL of each peripheral blood sample , suitable for RT-PCR [ 30 ] .
This method is readily amenable to the analysis of 48 samples / run , it employs no toxic reagents and is very fast ( 30-60 minutes from sample to concentrated , intact total RNA ) .
A graphical technique based on the spread-versus-level plot may also be used to empirically estimate p [ 9 ] .
This method is robust against outliers and avoids the need for maximization of the likelihood .
The applied serologic technique lies on the aptitude of the antibodies to recognize allotropic determinants of HLA molecules on cellular surface [ 27 ] .
This method is sensitized by a reaction of microlymphocytotoxicity [ 28 , 29 ] , which uses specific anti-HLA DR antisera and rabbit complement of commercial typing tray ( Biotest , Germany ) .
In summary , we examined the applicability of using Zipf 's law as the basis for a novel normalization technique , which is applicable to both one channel microarray data and two channel microarrays .
This method is shown to out-perform such methods as global normalization to the mean but would appear to be inferior to quantile normalization .
Based on the above results , the line method was the best way to select the structure or region of interest as it was not subject to floor-effects , had a low coefficient of variation , and low within-sample variability .
This method is similar to , and a modification of the outline method , which requires that the actual boundaries of the structure be determined , whereas the line method sampled only from the interior of the structure .
Hunink et al have reported a method of correcting for verification bias when some participants receive the gold standard test based on variables other than the diagnostic test result , for example , if patients were sent to biopsy as a result of clinical findings .
This method is similar to the method proposed by Begg and Greenes , but includes an additional modeling step [ 12 ] .
In general , this method would also be suitable for experiments where multiple replicates of protein sample and LC / MS injection are available .
This method is simple in concept .
In order to offset the bias of the censored survival time , we employ a nonparametric method to impute the censored survival time .
This method is simple to implement but we agree with an anonymous referee that future improvement would be desirable .
The PS00008 myristoylation signature provided by PROSITE [ 19 ] was the first publicly available prediction algorithm .
This method is still widely used , despite the fact that the myristoylation signature has not been updated since 1989 , and is known to give a large number of false positive , as well as false negative predictions .
The intuition behind this method is that if a TF is related to the survival outcome of a patient given a certain disease , then the genes that are regulated by this TF will be more differentially expressed between the patients that survive or die .
This method is substantially different from finding a correlation , such as Pearson or Spearman correlation coefficients , between gene expression and binding affinity .
The most often encountered approach is the two-limit Tobit technique , which has been adopted as the natural choice for modelling DEA scores in second stage evaluations .
This method is suitable when the dependent variables are censored or corner solution outcomes [ 18 ] , as in the case of DEA scores which are continuous on the [ 0-1 ] interval and take the value 1 with positive probability , while the probability of obtaining the limiting-value 0 is zero .
We present a method for the global analysis of the function of genes in budding yeast based on hierarchical clustering of the quantitative sensitivity profiles of the 4756 strains with individual homozygous deletion of nonessential genes to a broad range of cytotoxic or cytostatic agents .
This method is superior to other global methods of identifying the function of genes involved in the various DNA repair and damage checkpoint pathways as well as other interrogated functions .
We refer to this as the ratio method .
This method is supposed to be more precise than the signal method for inter-array comparisons .
Simmons and Ochoterena have proposed a fourth method for coding indels [ 16 ] .
This method is termed " simple indel coding " .
A recent novel approach for knowledge-based clustering [ 29 ] involves the use of selectively snipping the edges of a typical hierarchical clustering tree to induce clusters that are maximally consistent with available background information such as functional annotations .
This method is tested and reported to outperform another recent knowledge-based clustering method [ 30 ] .
Our approach applies an expectation-maximization algorithm to a model derived from a novel classification of SNP array probes .
This method is the first to our knowledge that is able to ( a ) determine the generalized genotype of aberrant samples at each SNP site ( e.g. , CCCCT at an amplified site ) , and ( b ) infer the copy number of each parental chromosome across the genome .
The implementation of McGill University 's clerkship in Geriatric Medicine [ 6 ] included a new method of evaluation to stimulate self-reflection in clerks as well as student-tutor interaction .
This method is the McGill Electronic Evaluation Portfolio ( MEEP ) , a web-based electronic portfolio designed to facilitate the use of portfolios in clinical settings making it accessible from any computer with an Internet connection .
To apply these methods it is necessary to know the prevalence of smoking in the study population , the total number of deaths due to diseases causally related to tobacco use , and a measure that summarizes the increased risk of dying due to these causes among smokers and ex-smokers .
This method is the most widely employed in the literature [ 4 , 6-51 ] .
The first method finds the best matching peptide from a sequence database using a scoring function based on the likelihood that an identified peptide is actually the peptide of the spectrum [ 1 , 2 ] .
This method is the mostly used but it is able only to identify peptide stored in a database .
The Sum-Height ( SH ) greedy method , denoted by SH , selects a character that will result in the largest increase in the sum-height .
This method is the same as the Majority Merge ( MM ) algorithm .
With this method we underestimate the heterogeneity of viral spread as compared to Brownian motion .
This method is therefore a good worst-case scenario for the study of heterogeneous spread of virus particles .
The method to analyze all ConsWH or CombWH in any window sizes are called exhaustive window haplotype analysis .
This method is thought to optimally extract information by identifying disease-associated haplotypes [ 4 ] .
The advantage of such an approach is that it allows the detection of conserved regulatory modules in highly divergent sequences , as we have demonstrated both with simulated sequences as well as with real world examples .
This method is thus complementary to many existing methods that are based on sequence similarity comparisons [ 23 ] or use sequence similarity for pre-analysis selection [ 4 , 5 , 7 , 24 ] .
The method is feasible for use in high-throughput systems due to an automated injection .
This method is thus well suited for screening and may also reduce costs .
In summary , the presented protocol allows fast detection of recombinants with an easy technique by minimizing the amount of necessary steps for generating a recombinant adenovirus .
This method is time sparing and cost-effective .
Here , we describe a method to reveal the ability of evolutionary models to account for the compositional heterogeneity in a sequence alignment , which we measure using the median of all Bowker 's pairwise statistics , or the number of significant Bowker 's pairwise tests ( in the following , we note the measure of compositional heterogeneity h ) .
This method is tree-based , and uses parametric bootstrapping [ 10-12 ] .
In order to assess the importance of different methods for total weight calculation , we implemented a version of the SAM " bits saved " method in the HMMER code .
This method is unpublished by the original inventors but explained in an article by Edgar and Sjölander [ 33 ] .
After this , we estimated the isotopic peak profile for a peptide of the same mass using the method of averagines [ 61 ] .
This method is used by most feature detection algorithms developed so far .
Sample size calculation was carried out for our primary outcome ( accuracy of the AARR in screening for PA ) according to the previously published method by Jones et al [ 28 ] .
This method is used to calculate the sample size required to estimate an expected level of sensitivity with a predefined degree of precision ( confidence interval ) [ 28 ] .
The fidelity of the amplification methods was determined using the ??Ct relative quantification method for qPCR .
This method is used to compare the expression of a given gene in one sample relative to a second , and is based on the amplification efficiency of the PCR primer pairs used [ 19 ] .
To combine these diverse sources they adopt the so-called random forest technique , which uses a set of decision trees with random subsets of attributes .
This method is used to compute similarity between protein pairs , and the k-nearest neighbor algorithm is then used to classify protein pairs as interacting or not .
The analysis of sole carbon and nitrogen source utilization was conducted with Phenotype MicroArrays™ ( Biolog , Hayward , Calif. ) .
This method is used to identify the function and global interactions of a gene on cellular metabolism [ 48 , 49 ] .
In this article , we present a method that extracts biological named entities directly from full length articles .
This method is used to process a corpus of 80,528 full text articles and assemble a catalog of protein name references indexed by an article PubMed identifier ( PMID ) with high precision .
In this study we present an in silico analysis method to determine pooling of variables in complex dynamic models of biochemical reaction networks .
This method is used to study metabolic network models and allows us to identify and analyze pool formation resulting from the underlying stoichiometric , thermodynamic , and kinetic properties .
Here we describe an assay for the detection of the HHV-6B B6 mRNA , but our approach can easily be extended to involve other mRNAs .
This method is useful during the study of HHV-6B biology and offers reliable and reproducible , quantitative detection of viral mRNA below the attomol range .
In the case of evolutionary agent based models , a certain number of agents ' characteristics are encoded in free parameters ( an artificial genome ) and optimized using techniques of evolutionary computation , such as genetic algorithms [ 26 ] .
This method is useful for identifying the range of parameter values that is selected by the evolutionary algorithm , depending on variation in environmental factors that are controlled by the experimenter .
The method of interpretation used was inspired by the French philosopher Paul Ricoeur 's phenomenological hermeneutics [ 26 ] , and developed at the University of Tromsø ( Norway ) and Umeå University ( Sweden ) and has previously been used by Lindseth et al. , [ 27 ] Udén et al. , [ 1 , 28 ] Søderberg and Norberg. , [ 29 ] Sørlie et al. , [ 18 , 30-33 ] and Nordam et al. [ 34 ] .
This method is useful to elucidate the narratives of people 's experiences .
The method of interpretation used was inspired by the French philosopher Paul Ricoeur 's phenomenological hermeneutics [ 35 ] , and developed at the University of Tromsø ( Norway ) and Umeå University ( Sweden ) and has previously been used by Lindseth et al. , [ 36 ] Udén et al. , [ 1 , 13 ] Søderberg et al. , [ 37 ] and Sørlie et al. [ 30 , 32 , 38 ] .
This method is useful to elucidate the narratives of people 's experiences .
Hierarchical linear models ( HLM ) are a multilevel approach that characterizes individuals and animals as nested within groups ( e.g. according to sex , racial background , or occupation ) as a means of investigating the interaction between individual-level and group-level variables [ 46 ] .
This method is useful when exploring whether health outcomes for individuals or groups are correlated .
The analysis elucidates a temporal hierarchy of events that range from chemical equilibration events to the formation of physiologically meaningful pools , culminating in a network-scale ( dynamic ) structure- ( physiological ) function relationship .
This method is validated on a model of human red blood cell metabolism and further applied to kinetic models of yeast glycolysis and human folate metabolism , enabling the simplification of these models .
A further approach has been taken using partial correlations that deconvolute contributions by additional parameters in order to reduce the list of correlations to basic dependencies [ 21 ] which may present a link from correlation to causality [ 22 , 23 ] .
This method is valuable to investigate the control structure within a given correlation network but it does not remove the principle robustness problem of correlation estimates .
Hallikas et al. [ 23 ] propose the EEL algorithm for finding alignments of significant motif occurrences instead of the sequences themselves .
This method is very efficient and does not rely on raw sequence similarity but it assumes that the motifs in conserved CRMs occur exactly in the same order .
Since we have proposed a new approximate inference algorithm , it is important to identify when this method works better than other approximate inference methods .
This method is very fast compared to previously described graphical model algorithms : its runtime is linearly proportional to the number of cells in each trial field and to the number of classes it needs to choose from .
It is clear that HWPM method works only if the initial low resolution model of the particle is already known .
This method is very interesting if we need to add more particles to an existing intermediate resolution reconstruction in order to increase the resolution .
The key to the success of this method is a very high diversity V-gene repertoire template that was obtained from 140 non-immunized donors in combination with optimized primer set and cloning technique .
This method is very practical and should be able to be carried out in any academic institutions , small research facilities , and non-profit organizations world-wide , for the generation of both naïve and immunized human phage display scFv library .
Within a clinical trial setting , the DNA-cards method was very well accepted by investigators and patients ( in perception of investigators ) , and was preferred to conventional methods due to its ease of use and safety .
This method is very robust allowing to obtain DNA of quality to perform PCR analyses and obtain the GSTM1 and GSTT1 genotype of all patients of the study .
We used a modified gene set enrichment analysis [ 14 , 15 ] , which measures the cumulative effect of small but consistent changes in expression levels of genes within a gene set .
This method is very sensitive , as it can show whether overall age regulation of a gene set is statistically significant even when expression changes of individual genes that comprise the gene set are not .
Here we describe a novel PCR method that combined hemi-nested PCR ( a single internal primer ) with touchdown PCR for primer-template mismatches .
This method is very useful for rapid isolation and sequencing of gene families from BAC libraries .
The QALY approach attempts to account for the quality of life lost by adjusting for time " lost " from disease or death .
This method is welfare-theoretic only under very restrictive assumptions , so it is difficult to conceptualize the significance of any particular QALY score .
Initial miRNA expression studies were performed by means of Northern blot analysis [ 7 ] .
This method is well-established but is very laborious and highly limited , regarding sample throughputs .
One way to improve the efficiency of the identification process is to first use theoretical algorithms to predict which peptides are more likely to be epitopes and then experimentally screen this much smaller , selected list of peptides .
This method is widely used [ 9 ] - [ 12 ] and has been applied in a number of studies to identify potential vaccine targets [ 13 ] , [ 14 ] .
We performed trend analyses on the response and explanatory variables using the seasonal Mann-Kendall method [ 48 ] .
This method is widely used in environmental science , because it is simple , robust and can cope with missing values [ e.g. [ 20 ] ] .
In this study we propose a predictive method primarily based on sequence and phylogenic information with the aim to apply it to the entire human genome .
This method like others hinges on the assertion that evolutionarily conserved nucleotide bases are important for gene function and that single base mutations at these conserved positions are likely to represent disease alleles [ 20 ] .
As the most likely number of clusters present in a dataset is not necessarily indicated by the highest lnP ( D ) ( see STRUCTURE manual for additional details ) we applied the method of Evanno et al. [ 68 ] to approach the most likely number of clusters K .
This method looks for a maximum of the slope ( ?K ) of the lnP ( D ) distribution among runs .
A second method we used was to look for common regulatory elements was oligonucleotide analysis which has been used in yeast to identify regulatory sites [ 36 ] .
This method looks for enriched oligonucleotide frequencies in a group of genes .
Let 's examine three representative Goose methods ( again , see the supplement for a fully documented simple goose ) .
This method looks up the address of the boss , registers itself with the boss , and receives a unique name in response .
2. The strips sampling ( sm ) is the most suitable sampling method for the effective reduction of the sequence set when more than 100 sequences are detected by BlastP searches .
This method maintains the potential structural and functional information in the sampled set and by defining the maximal number of sequences ( set here to 100 ) the computation time remains reasonable .
In the absence of head-to-head evaluations , we conducted indirect comparisons of the interventions versus similar comparators across similar patient groups using methods described by Bucher et al [ 12 ] .
This method maintains the randomization from each trial and compares the summary estimates of pooled interventions with CIs .
However , in the absence of head-to-head trials of varenicline versus NRT , we conducted indirect comparisons of these interventions versus placebo using methods described by Bucher et al and conducted z-tests to confirm [ 28 ] .
This method maintains the randomization from each trial and compares the summary estimates of pooled interventions with CIs .
Applied to gene name data it provided a useful analysis of name variation of related genes within and between species .
This method makes a powerful and useful addition to existing methods for searching gene data based on text retrieval or curated gene lists .
Liang et al. [ 5 ] developed a multipoint linkage mapping approach for estimating the location of a trait locus using affected sibling pairs .
This method makes an assumption that there is no more than one trait locus in the chromosomal region .
Instead of using the most probable sequence alignments the method utilizes the a posteriori probabilities for nucleotide alignments in order to establish the alignment constraints .
This method makes Dynalign more robust by eliminating the need for the M parameter above .
Interaction suppression is one of the few techniques available to evaluate the biological significance of an interaction between two proteins .
This method makes extensive use of the two-hybrid technique in a very original manner .
We therefore developed an automatic method for the spatial normalization of array-CGH data .
This method makes it possible to delineate and to eliminate and/or correct areas affected by spatial bias .
Comparisons between glucose measurements ( RN PCx and PG , LAB PCx and PG , and RN PCx and LAB PCx ) were done using the Passing-Bablok regression method [ 11 ] .
This method makes no assumptions for sample distribution or measurement errors .
BASE was the method used in this study to infer the relationship between TFs and the survival probability of patients with different cancer types .
This method makes use of gene expression data and TF-gene binding affinities .
As all proteases described so far are cysteine proteases and nearly all proteolytic activity of cell extracts can be inhibited by cysteine protease specific inhibitors we chose a straightforward one-step purification approach described by Greenbaum et al .
This method makes use of modified trans-epoxysuccinyl-L-leucylamido- ( 4-guanidino ) -butane ( E64 ) and has been adopted successfully for cysteine proteases of different organisms ranging from plants [ 24 ] over P. falciparum [ 25 ] to D.melanogaster [ 26 ] .
The SVM-RFE is a quite popular method of feature selection in an iterative manner .
This method makes use of repeated training of a SVM classifier with a progressively reduced set of features .
In Hajibabaei et al. [ 7 ] , we pioneered a new visually-appealing technique for drawing organic-looking phylogenetic trees .
This method maximizes resolution for tips of the tree ( i.e. species ) , which are most important in barcode analysis .
In summary , the method described here may represent an alternative approach to identify tumour-affected cervical regions in patients with metastasized MTC .
This method may , however , only be successful if the tumour is confined to the neck on one cervical site and with slightly to moderately elevated serum calcitonin levels only .
On the one hand , the hypotheses that emerge from this synthesis draw on a broader body of views than any single study ( as in a meta-analysis ) and may therefore increase reliability ; on the other , we risk making strong conclusions based on a group of studies none of which is in itself reliable on the grounds of quality or diversity of context .
This method may also be poor at examining contradictions , as well as commonalities , in the data and at highlighting gaps in the evidence .
Fortunately , an effective method for predicting LFP therapy effectiveness for gastrointestinal cancers by detecting p53 has been reported [ 16-18 ] .
This method may be applicable for biliary tract malignancy .
Instead we compared two different therapeutic approaches , one with a prevalent effect at the peripheral and the other at the central level .
This method may be limited , because an oral device may produce a placebo effect , which acts at the central level producing an analgesic effect .
The functional enrichment analysis introduced here allows association between eQTLs and biological pathways , enabling the identification of both novel members and novel regulators of these pathways .
This method may be particularly relevant and complementary to whole-genome association studies in large clinical populations [ 29 ] - [ 34 ] .
Our method of analysis employed the adjusted indirect comparisons meta-analysis method .
This method may be unfamiliar to some readers .
The individual-observation log odds ratios are themselves constructed from positionally defined Markov Models ( pMM 's ) , so what results is a pMM / SVM sensor method .
This method may have utility in a number of areas of stochastic sequential analysis that are being actively researched , including splice-site recognition and other types of gene-structure identification , file recovery in computer forensics ( ' file carving ' ) , and speech recognition .
By simulation study , we confirmed that the proposed method can detect more reliable information from a combined data and it is more effective in small data sets derived from different experimental conditions .
This method may not be appropriate when the different experimental features in data sets include biological variations ( for example , early disease stages of I and II in data set A and advanced disease stages of III and IV in data set B ) because the expression values of a specific experimental group are transformed into the form of the corresponding experimental group of a reference data set .
Therefore , this approach yields malignant cell loaded DC in a rapid time-frame without extensive cell culture , exogenous factors or cell isolation and manipulation .
This method may provide a clinically practical means for the production of immunogenic DC for cancer vaccine therapy .
We have developed a method based on seed-dependent PrP fibril formation that shows promising results in differentiating a small number of BSE-positive serum samples from healthy controls .
This method may provide the basis for an ante mortem diagnostic test for prion diseases .
Pyrosequencing offers a new approach to data acquisition , analysis and identification of known and unknown ( new ) alleles , in particular in heterozygous conditions .
This method may represent a useful tool to the screening and characterization of polymorphic genetic markers in several clinical or experimental settings [ 12-24 ] .
According to their method , a TF is reported to be cell cycle regulator if the activity of the TF does not keep constant in the cell cycle and there exists at least one phase in the cell cycle where the TF is significantly up- or down-regulated .
This method may result in some false positive findings .
We utilized a highly quantitative experimental approach to assess a gene 's involvement in mitochondrial organization and biogenesis .
This method measures a single gene knockout phenotype in comparison to the same phenotype for matched wild type strains .
Its purity and state of oxidation was confirmed by an oxidimetric titration using arsenite-cerate method [ 41 ] .
This method measures only Fe ( VI and V ) , leaving any ferric ions in the preparation unreduced .
The present study uses a naïve approach , called " cumulative TA skew " [ 17-20 ] to seek the presence of foreign genetic elements in the genomes of the twelve currently completely sequenced S. pyogenes strains ( Table 1 ) .
This method measures the local nucleotide usage without any a priori on nucleotide composition of DNA sequences .
An education method for law and ethics in which a small group of intern doctors and teachers of ethics ( who can play an important role in modeling the very nature of ethics ) [ 32 ] , maintain smooth communication and foster mutual understanding from the standpoints of doctors and patients , corresponds to the traditional custom of Asian countries including Japan , where ethical sensitivity is established in families and communities .
This method might be a highly effective way for doctors to acquire ethical sensitivity .
For example , one approach to reduce non-participation bias is to use information from a sample of nonparticipants in the statistical adjustment of results for the participants [ 28 ] .
This method might provide more precise estimates of parameters in the target population with stratification by mode of non-participation , perhaps by sampling early refusers separately from other nonparticipants .
The four electrode technique used in this study is considered the standard in biophysical sciences and is widely employed to measure electrical conductance / impedance of biological tissue [ 28-37 ] .
This method minimizes error due to fluctuation in voltage and electrode contact impedance .
The deterministic record linkage approach generates links on the basis of a full agreement of a unique identifier or a set of common identifiers .
This method minimizes the uncertainties in the match between two databases since only a complete match on a set of personal variables is accepted at the cost of lowering the linkage rate .
A , B ) Formation of COs and NCOs were assayed by the approach of Storlazzi et al. [ 98 ] .
This method monitors the appearance of two species which , in WT meiosis , are known from tetrad analysis to arise specifically in association with CO and NCO recombination ( “COs” and “NCOs” ; Panel A , top ) .
Their Bayesian approach to parameter estimation led to convergence problems in our data , and therefore we used an alternative procedure within the empirical-Bayes framework to tackle this problem : the EM estimation algorithm [ 26 ] in the presence of incomplete data .
This method need not incorporate prior information from subject-matter knowledge .
Plausible and cautious extrapolation of the trends seen in a recent large and rigorous population-based study of HIV in a south Indian district suggests that India is likely grossly overestimating its HIV burden with the current official sentinel surveillance based method .
This method needs revision .
In these datasets a method to measure PSA recurrence is needed for the subsequent analysis of outcomes data and as such need to be applied in a uniform and reproducible manner .
This method needs to be simple and reproducible , and based on known aspects of PSA biology .
The traditional method to select a set of marker genes is as follows : 1 ) rank the genes according to their significance in gene expression differences between diseased and normal samples using a statistical test ( e.g. t-test ) ; 2 ) use a classification method to evaluate the prediction error by using the top one gene , followed by the top two genes , the top three genes and so on until a pre-specified number of genes or a minimum prediction error is reached [ 1 , 2 ] .
This method neglects the gene-gene interactions that may exert significant effects on the traits of interest .
The other method that can give atomic resolution structural information is NMR , a technique first demonstrated independently in 1946 by Felix Bloch ( 1905-1983 ) and Ed Purcell ( 1912-1997 ) .
This method observes nuclei that have magnetic dipoles .
First , we removed those on medication from the analysis ( annotated bp-med ) .
This method of accounting for medication was used in the previous study of blood pressure in this population [ 13 ] and was chosen because anecdotal evidence suggest that compliance to prescription guidelines are not rigid in the OOA community and members tend not to control their blood pressure tightly with medication .
Additionally , a cut-off score of 6+ for the BSRS-5 was determined for psychiatric disorders using receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) analysis [ 10 ] , which is a method to measure the ability of an observer to identify a signal against a background of noise [ 11 ] .
This method of analysis described a function that summarizes all possible performances of a case faced with the task of detecting a signal from noise under a curve [ 12 ] .
A cluster analysis technique , which made use of the qualitative nature of the data ( presence / absence data ) , was used to cluster similar ( correlated ) items .
This method of analysis did not yield better results than those obtained by subjectively forming clusters of items .
As a method of theory development , constructivist grounded theory provides components for the systematic synthesis of social processes and for deriving theories through inductive analysis of empirical data collected in natural settings [ 24 ] .
This method of analysis provides a set of systematic procedures for identifying categories and relationships between categories which arise in the data .
In multivariate analysis , CTC levels were the strongest predictor of poor outcome .
This method of assessing response and prognostication may represent an important addition to current disease assessment tools .
For the analysis of the European study a novel approach was adopted in which items shown to be valued differently in different countries were treated as individual items .
This method of controlling for DIF allowed data from the different countries to be combined in a valid manner .
These results give an idea of the " normal " working method of the GP .
This method of data collection makes it possible to examine such large numbers of patients from different sex and age groups [ 22 ] .
As an initial statistical analysis , we used Affymetrix software to define genes that showed expression changes ( Increased , Decreased or Marginal ) in expression levels between pairs of profiles ( difference analyses ) .
This method of data interpretation showed that some muscle biopsies showed very little variance between different regions of the same biopsy , while other patient biopsies showed considerable variability ( see Fig. 2 for representative scatter graphs ) .
Defining medical informatics literature as articles assigned " Medical Informatics " MeSH ( Major Topic ) headings by National Library of Medicine indexers may result in a more comprehensive analysis and more practical results for researchers .
This method of definition may more closely resemble how researchers actually search for and retrieve literature .
At least 1-2 days before analysis , groundwater and river samples stored in acid-leached scintillation vials were acidified to 1 % HCl ( Optima , Fisher Scientific ) to ensure re-dissolution of Fe oxhydroxides that might have precipitated .
This method of delayed acidification was validated by comparing the composition of tube well samples stored for 11 months with replicates that had been acidified in the field [ 36 ] .
As there are no other diagnostic tools to identify ADL episodes , the present method of symptomatic diagnosis was used .
This method of diagnosis through local terminologies was found to be highly specific ( specificity = 0.980 ) and sensitive ( sensitivity = 0.978 ) for diagnosing ADL [ 5 ] .
By this approach , in vivo labeling circumvents the aforementioned technical issues while effectively identifying functional tumor vessels that are accessible if a drug was given via the vascular route .
This method of endothelium labeling has not been previously combined with laser capture microdissection and provides a roadmap for molecular targeting in endothelial cells .
Current expression methods for DI use baculovirus containing a cloned cDNA sequence of the DI gene to infect Spodoptera frigiperda insect cells [ 14 ] .
This method of expression is relatively expensive , laborious and less amenable to being scaled-up in comparison to prokaryotic expression systems .
Model fitting is based on the EM algorithm , and iterative proportional fitting , with parameter starting values defined via a random number seed .
This method of fitting yields maximum likelihood estimates of the model parameters , which are therefore unbiased in large samples , and have the smallest possible variance .
The acceptor photobleaching fluorescence resonance energy transfer ( FRET ) method is widely used for monitoring molecular interactions in cells .
This method of FRET , while among those with the simplest mathematics , is robust , self-controlled and independent of fluorophore amounts and ratios .
In this regard it was necessary to break rank with typical approaches to designing disease- and symptom-specific HRQL instrumentation , since they are based on the premise that measures depend on a careful specification of disease-specific contexts and experiences .
This method of gaining measurement precision was not seen as feasible across disparate and heterogeneous patient populations .
Filter paper specimens were batched and refrigerated until transport to the Baylor Institute of Metabolic Disease where they were analyzed for tHcy by a method utilizing high performance liquid chromatography ( HPLC ) coupled to electrochemical ( Coulometric ) detection .
This method of homocysteine analysis from newborn screening cards has been previously used and validated by others and ourselves [ 21 , 22 ] .
For this purpose , we applied an algorithm that identified all TF combinations regulating common targets and assigned p-values of significance to these overlaps [ 26 ] .
This method of module identification is scalable to much larger datasets , which will be particularly necessary in view of the complex transcriptional regulation observed in higher eukaryotes [ 8 ] .
The details of the resulting algorithm are outlined in Section 4.1 .
This method of parameter estimation is computationally expensive and time-consuming for a typical tiling array data set .
For pathways with significant numbers of matches ( see [ 36 ] for a detailed description of this algorithm ) , PathoLogic imports the pathway and its associated reactions and substrates from MetaCyc into the new PGDB .
This method of pathway prediction is analogous to predicting the function of a protein based on sequence similarity to a protein of known function , in that both methods recognize the presence of something known ( a known pathway versus a known protein function ) based on a similarity between patterns ( a pattern of enzymes present versus a sequence pattern ) .
In order to remove any variability introduced through the use of different multiple comparisons corrections , the False Discovery Rate ( FDR ) controlling method of Benjamini and Yekutieli [ 21 ] was used to provide control of Type I errors when testing for changes in multiple gene sets .
This method of p-value adjustment was applied to the nominal p-values produced by all of the gene set analysis methods .
Historically , the Halstedian method of " see one , do one and teach one " has been the method of choice for teaching surgery residents how to perform procedures .
This method of teaching increases operating room time , use of equipment and human resources [ 23 ] .
It uses models of skin and towel color combined with a Bayesian sequential estimation technique .
This method of tracking is quite robust and able to dependably track the location of the user 's hands and the position of the towel , even after occlusion by an object or after leaving and returning to the camera 's field of view .
The present report describes a new method for table grape ( Vitis vinifera ) genetic transformation .
This method of transformation differs from previously described techniques with respect to regeneration ( based on organogenesis rather than embryogenesis ) and it is characterized by a higher regeneration efficiency , achieved through simple in vitro manipulations .
Focus group discussion is the dominant technique of collecting qualitative data [ 22 ] .
This method offers a unique opportunity of gaining insights into experiences , opinions and perspectives otherwise less accessible , and can be used when constructing questionnaires .
We also analyzed the combined Ourisia AFLP dataset using PCO-MC , a recently published method [ 65 ] which couples principal coordinate analysis ( PCO ) with a clustering procedure to determine significant population structure .
This method offers an objective way to determine whether clusters found in the PCO are significant , and it simultaneously takes into consideration many or all of the axes that explain the variation in a dataset ( as opposed to only the first three that can be easily visualised [ 65 ] ) .
One of the approaches commonly used to identify regulatory polymorphisms is to look for statistical associations between variation in gene expression and individual genotypes [ 9 ] , [ 10 ] .
This method offers the advantage of simultaneously analyzing thousands of genes using gene expression arrays and has yielded fascinating results in yeast [ 11 ] , [ 12 ] and mouse [ 13 ] - [ 16 ] .
The present study proposes a new method for the prediction of catalytic sites in proteins based on their residue-residue contact networks .
This method only relies on the knowledge of protein three-dimensional structures , with no requirement of functional attribution or sequence alignment to other proteins , and can thus directly be applied to proteins with no known homologues .
The comparisons were analyzed for differential gene expression using the RankProducts method [ 11 ] , implemented as a Bioconductor package [ 43 ] .
This method outperformed other methods to define differential expression in a study comparing ten different methods [ 12 ] , particularly in high-noise , low-replicate datasets .
To do so , we defined differential gene expression using the RankProducts method [ 11 ] .
This method outperformed other methods to determine regulation of gene expression in previous studies [ 11 , 12 ] and in our own evaluation ( see Materials and Methods ) , particularly in datasets with a small number of replicates .
We have developed a new Monte Carlo based method to predict the mapping between two interacting protein families .
This method overcomes some of the limitations of previous approaches by taking advantage of the information available on the species from which the trees are derived .
We have implemented a sib-comparison design to examine the effects of migration by using a counter-factual approach of comparing the health outcomes of migrating people with their non-migrating sibs who remain resident in the place of origin of both .
This method overcomes the inherent problems of conventional rural-urban comparisons but makes allowance for temporal life-style and exposure trends that will have affected both migrants and non-migrants , for example , the increased access to energy rich foods throughout India .
The haplotype resolution employs a phasing method that uses imperfect phylogeny .
This method partitions the SNPs into haplotype blocks , and for each block , it predicts the common haplotypes and each individual 's haplotype .
Heritability estimates and evidence for linkage were obtained using the variance components approach implemented in SOLAR version 2.1.2 [ 7 ] .
This method partitions the total phenotypic variance into variation due to a major QTL , polygenic background , and random error .
Genetic structure was highlighted by the model-based method developed by Pritchard et al. , ( 2000 ) for human genetics .
This method performed better than clustering methods based on pairwise genetic distance because only a modest number of loci was used [ 6 ] .
A prediction method ProLoc-GO based on GOmining was implemented using the feature set of informative GO terms .
This method performed well in predicting protein subcellular localization from input sequences only .
The lookahead scoring technique is also employed in the suffix tree based method of [ 13 ] .
This method performs a limited depth first traversal of the suffix tree of the set of target sequences .
Raw probe intensities (.cel files ) from each oligonucleotide array were processed by the RMA algorithm [ 51 ] , implemented by RMAExpress [ 52 ] .
This method performs background correction and quantile normalization , followed by calculation of a PM-only log2 expression measure for each set of 16 probes .
Boden 's method captures flexibility in all three flexible regions , but it also predicts over 50 % of this sequence as flexible .
This method performs prediction based on the entropy of the predicted secondary structure , and thus the quality of the predicted secondary structure determines the prediction of a flexible region .
For the analysis of military clinical surveillance data ( SEA ) , a weekly statistical non automated analysis is performed by IMTSSA in Marseilles , using the Current Past Experienced Graph [ 9 ] ( CPEG ) .
This method permits comparison of the observed number of cases with historical data , generated from the past 3-5 years , using Student and/or Poisson statistical laws .
Another approach has been to fit trial-by-trial RT data to the ex-Gaussian distribution , which provides parameters that may be related to more theoretically based distributions , such as the Wald [ 32 ] .
This method permits determination of whether the increase in intra-individual RT variability in ADHD is a general phenomenon occurring across the whole RT distribution , or reflects a specific variability-producing process , such as attentional lapses , restricted to the tail at the slow end of the distribution [ 27 ] .
In literature of microarray processing , a = 0.01 is often used as the genome wide significant level , so the gene-specific significance level is : a* = a / ( 2n ) Recently a new modification of the MMM algorithm , Mod2MMM hereafter , was introduced [ 6 ] .
This method points out a problem in constructing the test and null statistics and indicates that the true distribution of z may be different from the null distribution of Z , which can lead to invalid inference .
An alternative method for predicting protein function is the Phylogenetic profile method , also known as the Co-Conservation method , which rests on the premise that functionally related proteins are gained or lost together over the course of evolution [ 4 ] .
This method predicts functional interactions between pairs of proteins in a target organism by determining whether both proteins are consistently present or absent across a set of reference genomes .
To evaluate the method , seven peptides ( peptides # 1 , # 2 , # 3 , # 9 , # 10 , # 11 , and # 12 ) were predicted from the amino acid sequence of TPO and IA-2 by using the standard algorithm BEPITOPE [ 11 ] .
This method predicts peptides from the protein sequence , the corresponding epitopes thus being continuous .
We have developed a method to identify interacting TFs based on patterns of co-occurrence of pairs of DNA binding sites [ 3 ] .
This method predicts two TFs interact with each other if their binding sites have over-represented co-occurrence in the promoters of tissue-specific genes and the distances ( in unite of base pair ) between two sites are significantly different from random expectation ( as indicated by a small p-value ) .
To identify interactions between P. falciparum and human proteins , a modified yeast two-hybrid approach was applied as described previously [ 12 ] .
This method preferentially selects for plasmids that encode fragments of proteins that can be expressed in yeast , and is particularly useful for P. falciparum proteins , which are difficult to express in heterologous systems .
To classify our sequences into families , we used a nucleotide sequence identity matrix built using pairwise deletion method ( see Additional file 1 ) .
This method presents the advantage to compute a distance for each pair of sequences , ignoring only the gaps that are involved in the comparison and therefore including the largest amount of information for the whole dataset .
For example , Ihmels et al. [ 11 ] have applied a heuristic algorithm to the analysis of yeast gene-expression data to identify overlapping sets of genes whose expression is similar to known gene-expression patterns .
This method produced interesting results and identified genes that were similarly expressed to known transcription factor targets .
The 95 % -5 % cross-validation method ( Figure 3 ) requires more than 5000 train-test runs to reduce the variance of these estimates .
This method produced the most optimistic cross-validation accuracy estimates .
The 95 % -5 % cross-validation method ( Figure 7 ) requires more than 5000 train-test runs to achieve the same .
This method produced the most optimistic cross-validation accuracy estimates .
We designed a multiplex short-read DNA sequencing method to perform efficient ChIP-Seq in yeast and other small genome model organisms .
This method produces accurate results with higher throughput and reduced cost .
In addition , this method allows the monitoring of overall Ig change pre- and post-vaccination .
This method produces an IgG1 / IgG2a ratio and this ratio helps to differentiate Th1 or Th2 responses in vaccinated mice .
We developed Nearest Neighbor Networks ( NNN ) , a graph-based algorithm to generate clusters of genes with similar expression profiles .
This method produces clusters based on overlapping cliques within an interaction network generated from mutual nearest neighborhoods .
We adapted this approach in the present study with blinded scoring of tissue samples by three different investigators .
This method produces solid and reproducible data , but it is time consuming and only a small number of published studies seem to rely on it .
A new regression-based method of linkage analysis that works on arbitrary pedigrees has recently been published [ 2 ] and implemented in the publicly available MERLIN software package [ 3 ] .
This method promises to be robust with respect to departures from normality , a problem that has plagued variance components linkage analysis [ 4 ] .
That led us to develop the staggered reannealing method [ 3 , 4 ] .
This method proved to be useful as well , however , its efficiency declined as the gene to be mutagenized exceeded 1000 bp .
In [ 13 ] , a multi-resolution wavelet analysis of SEP was proposed and it decomposed the signals into a series of coarse and detailed t-f components with the help of scaling and wavelet functions .
This method provided a new way ( time-frequency decomposition ) to analyze SEP signals , but the wavelet analysis could not offer a time-frequency parameter description for the decomposed components , so it is difficult to characterize the t-f components and establish an objective standard to evaluate the SEP .
Our method , called BioPNG , encodes Affymetrix probe data as indicated in Figure 5 ( A ) .
This method provides 12.4 times compression over ASCII text file storage and 2.26 times compression over GEO 's method of zipping each binary Affy file individually and then zipping all of the files again into one file .
ASAP method may be the only practical approach to obtain chloroplast DNA sequence from rare or small plant samples .
This method provides a fingerprint of a given chloroplast region , which can be readily compared amongst different genera and give information of structural variability even without the sequence information .
The kernel machine method , with the support vector machine ( SVM ) as a most popular example , has emerged in the last decade as a powerful machine learning technique in high-dimensional settings [ 7 , 8 ] .
This method provides a flexible way to model linear and nonlinear effects of variables and gene-gene interactions , unifies the model building procedure in both one- and multi-dimensional settings , and shows attractive performance compared to other nonparametric methods such as splines .
The technique uses a probabilistic ensemble approach to group the measured multivariate features into a set of consensus clusters .
This method provides a novel way of linking the phenotypes of groups of cells to cluster histograms that describe the distribution of the measured features across the consensus clusters .
We used a previously described match-merge method [ 16 ] within SAS statistical software to merge the data sets on the basis of non-unique identifiers available in both datasets ( infant 's date of birth , date of hospitalization , maternal county of residence , maternal month and year of birth , and maternal country of birth ) .
This method provides a robust dataset without identifying information on any individual patient .
MEME is a motif-based method which detects conserved patterns or motifs among a set of sequences [ 26 ] .
This method provides a robust way to construct multiple alignments based on segment-to-segment ( or local ) comparisons rather than the residue-to-residue ( or global ) comparisons .
The method appears to be resilient against the presence of false positive interactions .
This method provides a useful tool for rapid screening of small to medium size protein interaction datasets .
Another approach using logistic regression estimates was suggested by Bruzzi et al [ 14 ] .
This method provides adjusted AFs and was originally presented for case-control data but can also be applied in cross-sectional studies .
The technique utilized the umbilicus as an anchor .
This method provides an acceptable measure of waist circumference , but may overestimate circumference when compared to other measures .
In this paper , we developed a logistic kernel machine regression model for binary outcomes , where the covariate effects are modeled parametrically and the genetic pathway effect is modeled nonparametrically using the kernel machine method .
This method provides an attractive way to model the pathway effect , without the need to make strong parametric assumptions on individual gene effects or their interactions .
Absolute data analysis was performed using the Affymetrix Microarray Suite 5.0 software .
This method provides an enrichment score of pre-defined gene sets whose magnitude is proportional to the association of the gene set to the particular phenotype 12 .
We analyzed trends in the proportion of home deaths by region , age , and causes of deaths using Joinpoint regression analysis .
This method provides an objective means for evaluating trends in data collected over time .
Recent publications have analyzed the PMR of multiple births by alternative fetuses with a risk approach [ 18 , 19 ] , where twin births had consistently higher mortality rates than singletons at all gestational ages .
This method provides new insight into the perinatal epidemiology in multiple births , the adaptation of which would be the issue for further investigations .
We have developed and validated a method for genomic survey sequencing ; a high-coverage , short-read genome survey using 454 pyrosequencing .
This method provides no de novo assembled sequence , and is not a replacement for conventional shotgun genomic sequencing , or for EST sequencing .
The automated image analysis and classification presented in this study demonstrate the feasibility of developing clinically relevant classification of histology images based on micro- texture .
This method provides pathologists an invaluable quantitative tool for evaluation of the components of the Nottingham system for breast tumor grading and avoid intra-observer variability thus increasing the consistency of the decision-making process .
The two distance measures are converted to zscores based on the permutation method described in [ 43 ] .
This method provides reliable measure of significance as it adjusts to the " compositions " of the vectors compared .
We developed a novel approach for quantitative analysis of CpG methylation density on the basis of microarray-based hybridization and incorporation of Cy5-dCTP into the Cy3 labeled target DNAs by using Taq DNA Polymerase on microarray .
This method provides several advantages over existing methods for quantitative methylation analysis .
The Greylevel Cooccurrence Matrix method ( COM ) is one of the most promising methods used in Texture Analysis of Magnetic Resonance Images .
This method provides statistical information about the spatial distribution of greylevels in the image which can be used for classification of different tissue regions .
In order to obtain adipose tissue venous blood , a 10 cm 22-gauge catheter ( Central venous catheter kit Seldinger technique ; Becton Dickinson , Alphen aan den Rijn , the Netherlands ) was introduced anterogradely over a guide wire into one of the superficial veins and threaded towards the groin , so that its tip lay just superior to the inguinal ligament [ 15 ] .
This method provides the drainage from the adipose tissue of the abdomen , uncontaminated by muscle drainage and with only a minor contribution from skin [ 15 ] .
Recently Ishwaran and Rao [ 12 ] , building upon work in [ 10 ] , introduced a method for detecting differentially expressing genes between multiple groups termed Bayesian ANOVA for microarrays ( BAM ) .
This method recasts the statistical problem as a high dimensional model selection problem , and uses a specific Bayesian hierarchical model oriented towards adaptive shrinkage .
One of these quantitative methods is the insertion torque described by Johansson and Strid [ 12 ] .
This method records the torque required to place the implant and provides valuable information about local bone quality .
In addition to the above mentioned two methods , an intelligent adaptive binning method was also implemented in Automics [ 29 ] .
This method recursively identifies bin edges in existing bins and requires minimal user input , and it can largely circumvents problems such as the loss of information due to low resolution , the occurrence of artifacts caused by frequency shifts and the presence of noise variables .
HEA is a safe technique with a low complication - and mortality rate , even in patients with left ventricular dysfunction [ 6-8 ] .
This method reduces blood loss and need for transfusions significantly in hip arthroplasty surgery [ 9 ] .
To find the mean , the CFEs for the six plates in each box were averaged following standard and previously published methods [ 13 , 14 ] .
This method reduces the variability of the CFE outcome measure , thus increasing the power to detect potential effects of treatment .
Treatment GroupControl GroupTreatment Effect SizeControl Effect SizeComparison Effect SizeR2Effect Size f2Sample SizeVickersBadger1.020.001.020.210.2740VickersSMLGC-W.AVG0.800.160.640.090.10101Vickers90 % C-W.AVG0.620.160.460.050.05187A-W.AVGC-W.AVG0.560.160.400.040.04235Vickers90 % Carpenter0.620.370.250.020.02476A-W.AVGCarpenter0.560.370.190.010.01957A final method we employ is to compare the two weighted averages .
This method relates very closely to a random effects meta-analysis [ 21 ] which treats each study as a unit .
Dates were also estimated using a parametric Bayesian approach [ 34 ] in the program multidivtime .
This method relaxes the molecular clock and allows rate variation among genes and lineages , and it is therefore appropriate for datasets that utilize more than one molecular marker .
In summary , in this work we present a genome-wide method for the identification of sequences that replicate early in the S phase .
This method relied on the isolation and cloning of early replicating sequences followed by the end-sequencing and mapping of these clones to the nearly complete human genome sequence .
We conclude that the new approach is effective and useful in assessing the quality of tandem mass spectrum by analysing the self-convolution result of the spectra .
This method relies mainly on the symmetry property inherited from the formation of complementary b and y-ions found in the tandem MS spectra .
One such method , GeneRank [ 19 ] , uses the same principles as Google 's PageRank algorithm [ 20 ] to rank differentially expressed genes based on gene expression data and prior biological knowledge .
This method relies on a parameter d , which governs the relative weight given to knowledge versus expression data .
The evolutionary trace ( ET ) analysis is developed by Olivier Lichtarge in 1996 [ 6 ] .
This method relies on both sequence and structural information to analyze functional sites of a protein or group of proteins .
Serial analysis of gene expression ( SAGE ) is a widely used technology for determining gene expression profiles of tissues and cell lines under different extracellular stimuli or under different phenotypic changes derived from genetic mutations ( 1 , 2 ) .
This method relies on isolation of polyadenylated mRNAs with subsequent synthesis of biotinylated cDNAs .
Leaves from plants in the late rosette stage were extracted with the Ariel method for DNA extraction for quantitative PCR and cloning of chromosomal sequences .
This method relies on lysis with the detergent Ariel ( Procter and Gamble , Schwalbach , Germany ) and subsequent phenol / chloroform extraction as described in [ 11 ] .
We have used a new integrative approach that allows to incorporate AS detection into ab initio gene prediction .
This method relies on the analysis of genomically aligned transcript sequences ( ESTs and/or cDNAs ) , and has been implemented in the dynamic programming algorithm of the graph-based gene finder EuGÈNE .
Note that we decided against the approach of Pagel [ 63 ] , as implemented in the program CAIC [ 64 ] , to take account of phylogenetic uncertainty .
This method relies on the a-priori specification of a predictor variable , which is not applicable for our data set .
The combination having the highest sum was selected for further analysis .
This method relies on the assumption that the probes specific for a gene yield similar expression patterns independent of the platform .
Such an approach is suited for permanently well-mixed systems such as the Belgian coastal zone ( BCZ ) , as knowledge of the mixed layer depth is not required .
This method relies on the assumption that the production and degradation of organic matter , and air-sea CO2 exchange are the main drivers of CO2 dynamics ( and that other processes such as CaCO3 production / dissolution are negligible ) .
For a quantitative assessment of metabolic fluxes , Palsson and co-workers have developed a theoretical approach commonly referred to as flux balance analysis ( FBA ) [ 3 ] .
This method relies on the hypothesis that the most likely distribution of stationary fluxes in the network has to be optimal with respect to a feasible optimization criterion linking the fluxes with cellular functions .
Although the computation of the powers by CGSA is different from the autoregressive technique used in the above research , we have also included PLO / PTOT , as determined by CGSA , in our analyses .
This method relies on the respiratory frequency residing above 0.15 Hz .
Our approach sets a threshold for the fraction of arrays called Present in at least one treatment group .
This method removes a large percentage of probe sets called Absent before carrying out the comparisons , while retaining most of the probe sets called Present .
The evolutionary relationships among a-proteobacteria were also examined using the character compatibility approach [ 27 ] .
This method removes all homoplasic and fast-evolving characters from the dataset [ 27 , 30 , 31 ] and it has proven useful in obtaining correct topology in cases which have proven difficult to resolve by other means [ 31-33 ] .
Most analyses in this paper used the background adjusted ( see above ) , log2 transformed data from replicate beads on a given array and summarised these values using Illumina 's default method .
This method removes outliers greater than 3 median absolute deviations ( MADs ) from the median and calculates a mean , standard error and number of observations for the remaining intensities .
Positive selection cells ( 106 ) were taken and incubated with FITC-labeled anti-CD4 antibody ( Biosource Inc , CA ) to determine positive yield by FACS analysis .
This method repeatedly yielded 99 % purity of CD4+ T cells .
In this article we present a computational method for automated annotation of Drosophila gene expression pattern images .
This method represents image groups using the bag-of-words approach and annotates the groups using a shared-subspace multi-label formulation .
We use the approximate normal modes calculation method developed by Hinsen [ 10 ] and implemented in the MMTK package [ 27 ] .
This method represents the low-frequency domain motions very well at negligible computational cost .
We use the approximate normal modes calculation method developed by Hinsen [ 26 ] and implemented in the MMTK package [ 21 ] .
This method represents the low-frequency domain motions very well at negligible computational cost .
Then , after adjusting the US-based analysis 's detailed estimate of facilities costs for inflation , we used the five multipliers to estimate facilities costs in each of the five countries [ 31 ] .
This method required wage rates for laboratory technicians and pathologists , productivity levels for technicians , expected abnormal sample rate and negative review , facilities requirements , and lump-sum supplies costs .
First , we used the method of Pagel et al [ 52,108 ] which quantifies the proportional contribution of punctuated ( ß ) and gradual ( g ) evolution to path lengths in a phylogeny , based on extent of association between sequence change and cladogenesis events .
This method requires a fully bifurcating tree , and so analyses were limited to our optimal reconstruction TOptimal .
Recently , Stenqvist and colleagues [ 8 ] introduced a novel method to measure EELV without interruption of mechanical ventilation , based on a simplified and modified nitrogen multiple breath washout ( NMBW ) technique , which is integrated into a mechanical ventilator .
This method requires a step change in the inspired oxygen fraction ( Fio2 ) , without the need for supplementary tracer gases or specialized additional monitoring equipment [ 8 ] .
A new analysis program , BLKPROB , computes E-values for multiple block hits using methods developed for searches of block queries against sequence databases with the MAST searching tool ( 15 , 16 ) .
This method requires computing the score distribution for each block , which can be done explicitly when the position-specific scoring matrix ( PSSM ) derived from a block contains only integers ( 17 ) .
The CCV method , although not requiring a process of defining orthologs , considers every possible string of length up to k for whole genome sequences .
This method requires even higher computational resources in terms of memory and CPU cycles .
Another approach , which is robust to HWE assumptions , is to estimate the HET rate ( and its variance ) directly by population allele frequencies [ 16 ] .
This method requires large sample sizes in order to achieve accurate estimation of HET rates .
Another method that can be viewed as an approximation to full Bayesian analysis is Discriminant Analysis invented by Sir Ronald A. Fisher [ 9 ] .
This method requires no assumption about conditional independence of features ; instead , it assumes that the conditional probability P ( F = Fi | C = ck ) is a multivariate normal distribution .
Kokotovic et al. , were the first to describe a typing method for M. genitalium , which is based on whole-genome fingerprinting involving selective amplification of restriction fragments [ 22 ] .
This method requires purified DNA from cultured strains and is , therefore , not applicable to typing directly from clinical specimens .
We describe here a novel approach to assessing potential risks of new introductions for biological control , using probabilistic-risk assessment methods .
This method requires quantification of key ecological traits of the candidate introduction , and the use of “precision trees” to evaluate potential risk .
We utilized the unsupervised clustering algorithm implemented in STRUCTURE [ 12 , 13 ] to group individuals into genetic clusters in such a way that each individual is given an estimated membership coefficient for each cluster , corresponding to the fraction of his or her genome inferred to have ancestry in the cluster .
This method requires that the number of clusters be prespecified , and assumes either a particular model of allele frequency correlations across clusters [ 12 , 13 ] or that allele frequencies are uncorrelated .
Therefore , we developed a method to date LTR retrotransposon fragments based on sequence identity between truncated fragments and a complete copy that comes for the same amplification burst .
This method requires the conservation of at least one complete copy per burst .
We used the 2-??CT method for relative quantification ( RQ ) of gene expression [ 36 ] , a comparative technique in which a target gene is normalized to an endogenous control and relative to a calibrator sample .
This method requires the target and endogenous PCR efficiencies to be nearly to equal .
Numbers of oncogenic alterations ( genetic mutations or epigenetic alterations ) required for transformation were estimated from ages at cancer using a Bayesian approach as previously described [ 11 ] .
This method requires the use of a life table from census data : for the Finnish data set we used a Finnish life table from the World Health Organization website , for the SEER dataset we used a United States life table as described previously [ 11 ] .
Currently , QuikChange site-directed mutagenesis is the method of choice .
This method requires two complementary oligonucleotide primers flanking the desired mutated nucleotide on both the sense and anti-sense strands .
We present a simple , rapid and highly efficient method for transgene insertion into the chromosome of Escherichia coli , Salmonella or Shigella at a benign chromosomal site using the site-specific recombination machinery of the transposon Tn7 .
This method requires very few manipulations .
Some studies using a unique technique called " real time fMRI " ( rtfMRI ) have been recently reported [ 9-12 ] .
This method resembles the " biofeedback " therapy that has conventionally been used in psychosomatic medicine to therapeutically give patients feedback on their distal physiological signs .
A qualitative approach was used as an important and essential first step in understanding the participants ' insiders ' view and their perceptions .
This method resulted in a set of themes and categories about the perceived productivity and human resource elements aiding or impeding nurses ' productivity .
The same approach was repeated for reaction B with respect to reaction A .
This method resulted in pair wise dependency plots for all recycling reactions .
The normalized and filtered data sets were clustered via hierarchical clustering with the complete agglomeration method and Euclidean distance metric [ 126 ] .
This method resulted in the best resolution of 12 distinct clusters illustrating tissue-specific expression patterns .
Background correction can be performed via the normexp-method .
This method results in a smooth monotonic transformation of the background subtracted intensities such that all the corrected intensities are positive .
The anchor-based approach we used estimates the change score at which the questionnaires discriminate best between improved and stable patients .
This method results in smaller MIC estimates , compared to the other methods , but may be closer to the minimal important change .
The model-fitting procedure derived from the results of the simulation study ( Sections 2.3.3-2.3.6 ) provides a fast and reliable approach to parameter estimation .
This method retains all the favourable properties of the Baum-Welch algorithm while utilising the reduced computing time provided by Viterbi training .
Although the number of such incomplete sets due to either scenario should be small , we use an approach of Huberman and Langholz [ 51 ] to accommodate both problems .
This method retains the matching and counter-matching structure and provides a modeling structure to handle the missing information using ' missing indicators ' .
The method of Gutteridge et al. [ 51 ] is based on sequence conservation and structural features and predicts active sites with a high success rate .
This method returns a correct prediction for 69 % of the 159 proteins in the test set and a partially correct prediction for 25 % of the test proteins , with an average of 7.2 predicted clusters per protein .
a statistical term weighting approach .
This method returns an ordered set of keywords with a high probability of occurrence in abstracts .
The ARDRA method demonstrated to be useful for intraspecific analysis .
This method revealed a remarkable diversity of Brazilian Savannah isolates which formed two clusters , while these isolates were identical in the 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis .
Recently , Ashkenazy and Kantelhardt and coworkers [ 34 , 35 ] investigated binary coded variations of heart rate , which were called sign series of heart rate increments , by means of detrended fluctuation analysis ( DFA ) .
This method revealed high anticorrelations in the range between 8 and 13 heartbeats which were associated with linear dynamical properties by means of surrogate data analysis .
It is likely these additional positive samples are false positives as the trial using artificially infected mosquitoes indicated a lower sensitivity of detection than the nested approach .
This method scored no samples positive when using DNA derived from mosquitoes stored in ethanol indicating that this storage method may not be suitable for this assay .
A related method that performs pairwise network alignment between species is the PathBLAST method [ 34-36 ] , which offers a general solution to the problem of PIN comparison .
This method searches for small seed linear high-scoring alignments and aggregates them by dynamic programming .
The next worst performing method on the measurement level was kNN .
This method seemed to benefit somewhat from a strong global correlation structure , as is present in the Spahira04A and Yoshimoto02 datasets .
Here , we present a novel approach based on support vector machines to predict the binding of peptides to MHC class I molecules , SVMHC .
This method seems to perform slightly better than profile based methods .
Here , we present a novel approach , SVMHC , based on support vector machines to predict the binding of peptides to MHC class I molecules .
This method seems to perform slightly better than two profile based methods , SYFPEITHI and HLA-BIND .
The PCA-maSigFun analysis of these data revealed , as expected , the more detailed picture of the functional aspects of auxin treatment .
This method selected 92 functional classes ( Additional file 2 ) including GO terms describing the auxin metabolism -indole-3 acetic acid amido synthetase auxin polar transport , response to auxin stimulus , auxin : hydrogen symporter activity , auxin mediated signaling pathway- , the ( meristematic ) growth -cell morphogenesis , cell-wall modification , regulation of meristem size , root hair elongation- and other regulatory and enzymatic activities such as transcription factor activity , ligase activity , protein serine / threonine phosphatase activity ( early induction ) and amino acid transporter , pectin esterase inhibitor activity , proteasome complex , oxidorreductase activity and beta-fructofuranosidase activity ( late induction ) .
As an alternative approach to recovering gene cassettes , the cassette PCR technique has been developed [ 20 ] .
This method selectively amplifies gene cassettes to the exclusion of other genomic sequences and can be applied to both metagenomic ( environmental ) DNA and to the DNA of defined strains .
Spectral referencing , which sets the inner reference peak ( DSS / TSP ) of each spectrum to 0 ppm , can be regarded as a simple global method for peak alignment .
This method shifts the entire spectrum based on the same reference peak position .
The first method we used for predicting local recurrence is PAM ( prediction analysis for microarrays ) : class prediction as described by Tibshirani and colleagues [ 31 ] .
This method shifts the mean expression level of each gene ( possibly after transformation ) for each class ( for example local recurrence ) towards the overall mean expression level for all classes by a fixed standardized difference ( shrunken centroids ) .
A different approach , which is used in this study , is to investigate the different developmental programs in the two cell types by characterizing the abundance of novel or previously known mRNAs separately for each cell-type by real-time RT-PCR studies .
This method should allow a considerable expansion of the number of genes investigated , studies done under different physiological conditions , and repeated experiments using mutant strains .
During a fold simulation , we need a scoring method to evaluate the quality of newly simulated conformations relative to those already generated .
This method should be reasonably fast , and have a relatively high correlation to the accuracy of predicted conformations .
We are proposing to use a simple computer program based on multivariate analysis to calculate the probability of the event of surgical morbidity or mortality .
This method should be tested in other institutions to assess its performance before it can be used in the decision-making process .
To better understand how ERa regulates transcription of estrogen-responsive genes , we developed a novel method to isolate proteins associated with the DNA-bound receptor , which utilizes full-length ERa and endogenously-expressed nuclear proteins and takes into account DNA- and ligand-induced changes in receptor conformation .
This method should be useful in isolating regulatory proteins associated with other DNA-bound transcription factors and could yield important new information about mechanisms regulating gene expression .
The rule-based method described here can be used to infer genetic networks by combining data from microarrays , promoter sequences and known promoter binding sites .
This method should in principle be applicable to any biological system .
The use of the bootstrap technique enabled us to provide both the 95 % CI of the thresholds and to compare them between different populations .
This method should probably be more widely used to assess the clinical relevance of new biological markers [ 1 ] .
Using this technique we examined 10 100 cDNA mini-fragments from HeLa cells and constructed a gene expression profile consisting of 3665 genes .
This method should thus provide an overall indication of gene activities and a rational means for monitoring gene fluctuation in different cells or tissues at different stages of development , in normal and disease states .
An SVM-based approach has been proposed [ 25 ] that parses the mfe structure in " triplets " : structural information about the pairing states of every three nucleotides , represented using dot-bracket notation .
This method showed an accuracy of ~90 % using the data available in the registry at the time .
More recently , Rajapakse et al. [ 17 ] proposed a complex splice site detection method by combining mostly second order Markov models with backpropagation neural networks ( BPNN ) .
This method showed an improved performance over GeneSplicer , however , BPNN is already computationally expensive and this method requires a larger sequence window .
Fackler et al [ 26 ] recently reported a new method ( quantitative multiplex methylation-specific PCR ) that assesses for promoter hypermethylation of DNA in breast ductal epithelial cells , even in samples with as few as 50 cells .
This method showed high sensitivity ( 84 % ) and specificity ( 89 % ) for four genes seen in breast carcinomas .
The most frequently employed large-scale caspase-3 preparation method includes separate expression of the two insoluble domains in E. coli and subsequent refolding of the two combined domains for the active enzyme [ 21 ] .
This method showed significantly improved protein yield .
Herein , we conducted a detailed study using a sliding-window approach .
This method showed that sca1 is divided into two domains undergoing different selection pressure ( Figure 2 ) .
Recently , Myers and Griffiths [ 7 ] introduced a new method based on combining recombination bounds of local regions ( local bounds ) to estimate a global composite bound of the sample .
This method shows a large improvement over Rm while it is applicable to moderate to large data sets .
In this paper we present a quantitative examination of the structural importance of amino acid positions in six superfamilies taken from the CATH database [ 13 ] using a modified version of a method originally developed for predicting functionally important residues [ 14 ] .
This method simply compares global structural change with the degree of mutational difference at a given position in a multiple alignment and corrects for the overall level of mutation as a measure of the degree of mutational constraint experienced by that position as a consequence of its importance for the structure .
The trend and seasonality in these means were then extracted using the ' combined ' method described in Barnett and Dobson [ 13 ] .
This method splits the time series into three parts : long-term trend , season ( s ) and residual noise .
For inferring intraspecific evolution , networks of haplotypes sampled from populations of R. solani AG-3 were built using the algorithm recommended by Posada & Crandall [ 26 ] .
This method starts by estimating the maximum number or differences between haplotypes as a result of single substitutions ( i.e. , those not resulting from multiple substitutions in a single site ) with the statistical significance level of 95 % [ 59 ] .
According to Strauss and Corbin [ 22 ] , the grounded theory approach is used because little is known about autonomy and self-management of people with type 2 diabetes in a nurse-led , shared-care setting .
This method starts from the experience of the group under study , not from theories derived from the literature which has the benefit that the findings fit with practice .
The most commonly used approach for pathway analysis , the enrichment or overrepresentation analysis , uses Fisher 's exact test .
This method starts with a list of differentially expressed genes based on an arbitrary cutoff of nominal p-values , and compares the number of significant genes in the pathway to the rest of the genes to determine if any gene-set is overrepresented in the significant gene list .
Having obtained the dissimilarity indexes , Ward 's clustering , a hierarchically agglomerative clustering method , is used to decompose the network [ 38 ] .
This method starts with each node being its own cluster , then at each step , combines the two most similar clusters to form a new cluster , until all the nodes have been combined into one cluster .
To select a few features out of hundreds , we apply a simple greedy selection method as follows : a forward stepwise selection as described in [ 37 ] ( section 3.4 ) was applied twenty times to the aa and seq feature set of dataset A ( mic ) .
This method starts with the intercept and calculates a value Fi=e-e+e+ / ( N-k-2 ) for each feature i , where e is the prediction error of a 10-fold cross-validation with the ?-SVR on the current model and e+ the prediction error of the model with the additional feature i .
The crystallization / immersion method was used to conduct a qualitative analysis using transcripts from the nine interviews .
This method stems from the notion that the researcher is the analytic tool and asserts that vital insights might occur during the data collection process [ 36 ] .
In the last few years flux-balance analysis ( FBA ) has been the most successful and widely used technique for studying metabolism at system level .
This method strongly relies on the hypothesis that the organism maximizes an objective function .
They also used a parallel analysis [ 6 ] where the empirically derived eigenvalues were compared with randomly generated ones .
This method suggested a four-factor solution : ( 1 ) general hypochondriacal fears and beliefs , ( 2 ) symptom experience and frequency of treatment , ( 3 ) thanatophobia , and ( 4 ) fear of coronary heart disease and associated health habits .
The study analysis , based in grounded theory , was an exhaustive process that maximized the data obtained from the session .
This method suited the preliminary aims of formative PCP involvement and the identification of conceptual themes to begin the characterization of PCP perceptions regarding primary prevention .
In this study we proposed a new technique for concurrently mining labeled and unlabeled datasets .
This method supplements standard supervised learning with clustering of data lacking clinical annotation to estimate the predictive power of gene subsets .
The intent of this study was to explore a practical approximation for implementing a Bayesian approach for nursing outcome report cards .
This method supplies report card users with more information than was given in the past reports ; specifically , the probability of being below the overall mean and the 95 % CrI .
The tau-leaping algorithms are all based on the modified tau-leaping procedure proposed by Cao et al. [ 9 ] which avoids the problem of negative populations observed for the original tau-leaping procedure .
This method switches to an exact SSA ( in our implementations the enhanced Gillespie ) for a few steps if the selected t becomes too small .
We present a novel method for the analysis of microarray data that identifies joint differential expression in gene-pathway pairs .
This method takes advantage of known gene pathway memberships to compute a summary expression level for each pathway as a whole .
To determine the precise tissue focus for LIN-35 and SLR-2 , we carried out a mosaic analysis [ 44 ] - [ 47 ] .
This method takes advantage of the inherent mitotic instability of most extrachromosomal arrays and allows for the identification of particular mosaic species , thereby enabling direct correlations to be drawn between gene function and localized expression .
Statistical total correlation spectroscopy ( STOCSY ) analysis method has also been implemented in Automics .
This method takes advantage of the multi co-linearity of the intensity variables in a set of 1D 1H spectra to generate a correlation matrix about the intensity correlations among various peaks across the whole dataset [ 54 ] .
To obtain experimental evidence that TM1 of Drosophila ORs inserts into the membrane with the N-terminus intracellular , we first used the ß-galactosidase ß-gal fusion technique .
This method takes advantage of the observation that ß-gal is enzymatically active when present in the cytosolic compartment but not in extracytosolic compartments ( luminal or extracellular ) [ 51 ] .
[ 25 ] The Holt-Winters forecasting method was used to predict the mortality rate per 100,000 person-years during and after the SARS outbreak .
This method takes into account both time trends and seasonal fluctuations within timeseries data .
It changes functional annotation analysis from term- or gene-centric to biological module-centric .
This method takes into account the redundant and network nature of biological annotation contents in order to concentrate on the larger biological picture rather than an individual terms or genes .
The scoring process is derived from the aggregate scoring method [ 24 ] , following the common methodology used in the SC test [ 12 , 13 ] .
This method takes into account the variability experienced clinicians demonstrate in their reasoning processes .
The toolbox currently implements a simple alignment method utilizing the master peak list .
This method takes one peak from a peak list at a time and aligns the peak to either the best matching existing row of the master peak list or appends a new row to the master peak list , if matching row is not found for the peak .
The information derived from these analyses is also limited by the use of the summary ROC approach to pool studies .
This method takes the DOR as the dependent variable .
We demonstrate in two different samples how this method can be applied .
This method targets high-throughput technology to psychiatric research on a subject-specific basis .
A new approach for disrupting gene function is RNA interference ( RNAi ) .
This method targets specific genes by way of post-transcriptional gene silencing .
We adopted the complete linkage method , where the distance between two clusters is computed as the distance between the two farthest objects in the two clusters .
This method tends to keep outliers out of clusters and guarantees that all objects inside clusters have strongly similar characteristics .
Other methods that have been implemented are to adjust the lipid levels for medication by using medications as covariates in a linear regression model .
This method tends to minimize the differences in lipid levels between medicated and unmedicated groups , but not necessarily adjust lipid levels toward their original values .
The gene expression levels are typically estimated by the Tukey 's biweight method .
This method tends to weaken the adverse effects of an outlier , but it is not always designed to weaken the adverse effects of an SFP probe because it is based on only one strain .
The HSM method [ 2 ] iteratively divides the data set into samples of half the size as the original set and uses the half-sample with the minimum range , where range is defined as the difference between the maximum and the minimum value of the sample .
This method terminates when the half-sample is less than three data points .
To test for the effect of race on gene expression , gene-by-gene analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) with three groups was used .
This method tests for any difference between the group averages .
The Gu method uses a maximum-likelihood procedure to test whether there has been a significant change in the rate of evolution after gene duplication leading to the two paralogs .
This method tests for functional divergence by estimating the log-likelihood value of the hypothesis assuming a value for the coefficient of functional divergence ( ? > 0 ) and comparing this likelihood with that under the hypothesis of no functional divergence ( ? = 0 ) .
Here we propose an extension of our polynomial-based method to cluster short expression profiles measured in different conditions .
This method that we call conditional clustering stratifies the data according to the experimental conditions and performs separate cluster analysis within the strata , then attempts to merge the resulting clusters if the merging could improve a Bayesian metrics .
The first method calculates the principal moment of the helix residues and used the eigenvector corresponding to the largest eigenvalue as the helix axis .
This method thus depends only on the spread of the residues in space and does not take into account the linear connectivity of the helix residues .
The plot ( Figure 2a ) demonstrates that the global size change is minimal after image 20 and the subtler differences in shape are not picked up by this method .
This method thus fails to predict the correct progression between the images after this point .
However , this method is only capable of determining the rate between two subtypes where a third , more distantly related , subtype functions as an outgroup .
This method thus trades the ad hoc rate assumptions of the previous methods with two implicit conditions : ( i ) that subtypes have a unique divergence and ( ii ) a third , comparable subtype is available to serve as an outgroup .
The Fisher kernel [ 11 ] was the first method that used support vector machines .
This method trains profile HMMs on related proteins and produces feature vectors from sequences by aligning them to the HMMs .
Several earlier studies have employed multivariate techniques such as factor analysis ( FA ) to investigate MetS .
This method transforms a set of MetS risk variables to a smaller set of latent factors .
To interpret such gene expression changes , gene set enrichment analysis [ 18 ] has been proposed .
This method treats microarrays independently .
We propose a quadratic regression method for identification of differentially expressed genes and classification of genes based on their temporal expression profiles for non-cyclic short time-course microarray data .
This method treats time as a continuous variable , therefore preserves actual time information .
In this gene retrieval method , a query gene vector is one of column vectors of A .
This method tries to retrieve genes relevant to the given query gene .
In order to adjust for this lack of independence , a permutation method was used to identify a correction factor that adjusts the naïve df for the calculated p-value to a lower value ( and subsequently higher p-value ) at the point where the percentage of differentially expressed genes is equal to the selected alpha level ( i.e. 5 % differentially expressed genes found at p < 0.05 ) based on random data .
This method used 7 microarray studies where both individual and cross-study analyses were computed for each iteration , for 100 total iterations , similar to our previous study [ 21 ] .
Solutions of the primary model consistent with experimental data were obtained by using a technique developed for fitting noisy , poorly sampled time series ( Locke et al , 2005 ) .
This method used a cost function based on reproducible , qualitative features of experimental time courses , such as the period of the oscillations and the phases at which the different components of the clock attained their peak values ( Locke et al , 2005 ) .
Stepwise ( forward step likelihood ratio method ) Cox proportional hazards analysis was used to assess the association between baseline factors and HIVAN , independent of other factors .
This method used the most computationally intensive method for calculating mean hazard ratios ( approximations of relative risk ) entering each variable into the model and removing those that were no longer significant after adjustment for all other variables .
Response rate was calculated in accordance with the method described in the GAIT study [ 11 ] .
This method uses a 20 % reduction in WOMAC pain as the primary assessment of a response to treatment .
Redelings and Suchard ( 2005 ) describe a statistical method of incorporating indel information into phylogeny estimation .
This method uses a joint reconstruction framework that simultaneously infers the alignment , tree , and insertion / deletion rates .
A well-established method is a phage display [ 13 , 14 ] .
This method uses a large size of a peptide library which is presented on a phage protein .
For the meta-analysis , summary estimates and 95 % CIs were calculated based on the method of DerSimonian and Laird [ 2 ] .
This method uses a random effects model that considers both within-study and between-study variation by incorporating the heterogeneity of effects in the overall analysis .
Publication bias was assessed according to the method introduced by Deeks [ 31 ] .
This method uses a slightly different approach , than the more classic methods [ 32 , 33 ] and is an optimized method suited for studies of diagnostic accuracy .
The IUPred method uses a probabilistic score ranging between 0 ( complete order ) and 1 ( total disorder ) , which is based on an energy value calculated using a pairwise energy profile along the sequence .
This method uses a threshold that equals 0.5 to distinguish the disorder and ordered regions .
Here we present ARACNE , a novel algorithm , using microarray expression profiles , specifically designed to scale up to the complexity of regulatory networks in mammalian cells , yet general enough to address a wider range of network deconvolution problems .
This method uses an information theoretic approach to eliminate the majority of indirect interactions inferred by co-expression methods .
Such missing values often complicate further statistical analyses , and for this reason we developed a secondary peak picking method for filling these gaps .
This method uses and values for estimating location where a missing peak should be found .
The " human capital " method was used to compute the indirect costs .
This method uses as basic hypothesis the equivalence between the value of lost production and the wage associated with such production .
An expectation-maximization ( EM ) approach is used to iteratively improve the imputed MVs and expression covariance matrix until total change in the matrix falls below a prescribed threshold ( here taken to be 0.01 ) [ 1 ] .
This method uses Bayesian estimation to fit a probabilistic PCA model [ 2 ] .
The Prionics-Check Western blot method for active monitoring of BSE in cattle was used [ 57 ] for routine scrapie diagnosis on brain stem at the obex region .
This method uses digestion with proteinaseK at 50°C and PrP-specific monoclonal antibody 6H4 for detection .
In recent work [ 24 ] we proposed an automated method to perform alphabet reduction .
This method uses ECGA [ 25 ] to optimize the distribution of the 20 letters of the AA alphabet into a predefined number of categories , using the Mutual Information ( MI ) metric , as an objective function .
Our methodology is based on the edge-betweenness clustering algorithm proposed by Newman and Girvan [ 20 , 21 ] , which has been previously applied to a wide variety of problems [ 22-25 ] .
This method uses edge centrality to detect module boundaries and finds the assignation of nodes into modules [ 20 ] .
In the present study a new method for the detection of protein active sites is introduced .
This method uses local network descriptors derived from protein three-dimensional structures to determine whether a residue is part of an active site .
Among the many methods used to detect communities in graphs , the modularity optimization algorithm of Newman is one of the most efficient and accurate to date [ 46 ] .
This method uses modularity , a quantitative measure of the observed versus expected intra-community connections , as a means to guide assignments of nodes into communities .
It is against this background of low levels of restorative treatment provision in Primary Care , and uncertainty as to the effectiveness of that treatment even if it is provided , that a novel , simplified method of using PMCs , the Hall Technique , has been investigated .
This method uses PMCs , which are filled with glass-ionomer cement , and simply pushed onto the tooth with no caries removal , local anaesthesia or tooth preparation ( shown in Figure 1 ) .
Recently , a simpler method to determine the significance level for SNP association studies has been proposed that relies on the linkage disequilibrium ( LD ) structure of the genome to determine the number of independent tests [ 1 ] .
This method uses principal components ( PC ) on pair-wise LD measures to determine the number of independent tests and uses this number as the denominator in a Bonferroni correction to the unadjusted p-values .
Compared to traditional methodologies , this procedure is far more successful at acquiring a narrow range ( 45-75 µm ) of pyrite particles , as reflected in batch dissolution experiments and SEM analysis .
This method uses readily available materials and equipment , and has potential application to other minerals as well .
In another class of gene-expression based approach is gene-trap .
This method uses reporters such as lacZ and GFP to tag , mutate and identify insertions into endogenous genes [ 4-6 ] .
These are obtained using a model-based likelihood method devised for reconstructing ancestral sequences , and implemented in PAML [ 24 ] , for our test case .
This method uses standard statistical theory to generate the posterior probabilities of different reconstructions given the data at a site [ 25-27 ] .
The other 3 methods can be constrained ( see Methods for details ) to prevent this .
This method uses the approach of Verotta [ 4 , 5 ] in which the input is parameterized by a general B-spline function and the deconvolution is obtained using a constrained regression method that prevents the input rate from having negative ( non-physical ) values .
Another method , which we refer to as the ' Lake ' method , uses Markov triple analysis ( MTA ) as a different approach to finding the P^U matrices for rooted triples of sequences [ 13 ] .
This method uses the fact that the conditional joint probabilities J^X , Y|Z can be written in terms of P^X , P^Y , and P^Z* , where P^Z* is the probability transition matrix from taxon Z to R .
Since 1999 , the Misgav Ladach method for caesarean section is used [ 16 ] .
This method uses the Joel Cohen incision and is recommended by the National Institute for Clinical Excellence [ 17 ] .
Our graph bigram method improves on this approach by accounting for all occurrences of the point mutation and protein terms throughout the length of the text instead of measuring one local relationship .
This method uses the t test to measure the significance of bigrams in the text , then employs a graph shortest-distance search to traverse significant bigrams to associate a point mutation with its correct protein term .
These appear as subsystems in analysis of multiscale networks of nonlinear biochemical reactions .
This method uses the theory of limitation developed in [ 1 ] .
To determine the orientation and relative lengths of overlapping BAC clones in the walk , a PCR-based method was used .
This method utilized oligonucleotides designed after the sequences of BAC-end fragments as primers ( described below ) and BAC clone DNA as template .
We developed a deep sequencing and bioinformatics analysis protocol to investigate the molecular composition of a breast cancer poly ( A ) + transcriptome .
This method utilizes a cDNA library normalization step to diminish the representation of highly expressed transcripts and biology-oriented bioinformatic analyses to facilitate detection of rare and novel transcripts .
To overcome these limitations , we have developed a structure-based predictive technique that integrates the strength of Monte Carlo simulations and homology modeling [ 13-15 ] .
This method utilizes a probe or " base fragment " to sample different regions of the receptor binding site , followed by loop closure and refinement of the entire class I peptide .
The most commonly used mechanism for RNA amplification is a T7 based linear amplification method first developed by Van Gelder , Eberwine and coworkers [ 19-21 ] .
This method utilizes a synthetic oligo ( dT ) primer containing the phage T7 RNA polymerase promoter to prime synthesis of first strand cDNA by reverse transcription of the poly ( A ) + RNA component of total RNA .
We start by describing a method for the accurate estimation of statistical significance of single binding sites .
This method utilizes an extensive database of known human , mouse and rat transcription start sites , the CSHL mammalian promoter database ( CSHLmpd ) [ 3 ] to tabulate frequencies of occurrences for all k-mers in known sequences .
In this work , we present a novel method for construction of the reference state , which we have called Monte Carlo Reference State ( MCRS ) .
This method utilizes random 3D points in the structure volume as ( by definition ) non-interacting probes for calculation of the expected contact probability density distance distribution .
A simpler method for computing cumulative tobacco smoke damage has recently been introduced .
This method utilizes the associations between lung cancer ( " smoke-load " ) and non-lung cancer death rates across all cancer sites .
Other attempts at the problem use local search methods on complete conformations , including the GTabu algorithm [ 7 ] .
This method utilizes the generic tabu search algorithm from the Human Guided Search ( HuGS ) framework [ 16 ] .
Identification of overrepresented DNA binding sites in genes of the same cluster is performed by the SCOPE method [ 12 ] .
This method utilizes three specialized algorithms ; BEAM for non-degenerate motifs , PRISM for degenerate motifs and SPACER for bipartite motifs .
We present a useful research algorithm for detecting delirium in an ICU setting .
This method utilizing both the CAM-ICU and a validated chart review demonstrates a more comprehensive approach to detection of delirium for research purposes .
We demonstrate the utility of this method by quantification of four genes , Xist , Sry and the two heat-inducible hsp70i ( hsp70.1 and hsp70.3 ) , as well as their RNA transcripts in single mouse embryos and in isolated blastomeres .
This method virtually eliminates losses of nucleic acids and is sensitive and accurate down to single molecules .
In 1976 , Arnold [ 14 ] introduced a technique based on 1H Nuclear Magnetic Resonance ( NMR ) spectroscopy .
This method was accurate and allowed direct measurement of deuterium content at the reaction site , as well as being safer and more facile than previous techniques .
In the present work we present an automated assay for the estimation of blood total antioxidant capacity ( TAC assay ) , based on the crocin bleaching ( oxidation ) method .
This method was adapted on a modern autoanalyzer , was linear over a wide range of values ( 0-3 mmol / L ) , and performed using an end point measurement .
For the ' Closest Sense ' method ( CS ) , input was the UMLS semantic network and the article abstracts .
This method was additionally tested on the WSD Test Collection [ 4 ] .
Using this approach electrical potentials on the epicardial surface are calculated from signals recorded on the patient 's skin .
This method was adopted by Jeremic et al. [ 32 ] and prompts for further investigation in this elegant and non-invasive technique .
The data collected by questionnaire survey were analysed mainly with simple descriptive statistics ; while the qualitative mode of analysis was mainly narrative .
This method was adopted for the qualitative abstraction and vivid presentation of a new understanding of present medical waste management practices .
While several other methods could be implemented , this approach was used because of its simplicity in examining existing data .
This method was also chosen because at the onset of analysis , we lacked the more detailed knowledge of the inter-relatedness of our sample often required to perform similar , but more sophisticated approaches within large inbred pedigrees [ 46-48 ] .
The second technique is , high-throughput mass spectrometric protein complex identification ( HMS-PCI ) protocol where a number of predicted interacting partner proteins are used as baits and associated proteins are identified .
This method was also initially developed for yeasts [ 15 ] .
Since only a small portion of the reaction is required , without any intermediate purification step , the time required for this analysis usually fits between typical ligation and transformation procedures .
This method was also repeated using purified ligation mixtures and the results were comparable ( data not shown ) .
Semi-quantitative determination of ER and PR was performed according to the method described by Allred et al. [ 43 ] .
This method was also used for semi-quantitative determination of the non-nuclear cytoplasmatic marker COX-2 .
Microarray results for selected genes were confirmed by real-time RT-PCR analysis .
This method was also used to analyze the effects of actein , the major cycloartane glycoside in the rhizomes , and a mixture of cycloartenol aglycons .
Cohen 's kappa ( ? ) was calculated as described by NMKL to quantify the degree of agreement between the two methods [ 28 ] ( ? > 0.80 means very good agreement between the methods ) .
This method was also used to evaluate the agreement between the real-time PCR and the BAX method in the on-site validation study .
The effects of experimental variables on coat colour was also investigated using residual maximum-likelihood analysis ( REML [ 38 ] ) implemented within GenStat [ 39 ] .
This method was also used to study the association of the SILV c.64A > G allelic variant with the coat colour dilution variation observed in the resource population .
According to this algorithm , clusters are built from the bottom up , first by merging individual items into clusters , and then by merging clusters into superclusters , until the final merge brings all items into a single cluster .
This method was applied as implemented in Sybyl 6.9 [ 88 ] .
We used a recently developed method to estimate the DDME from nucleotide diversity data of two species ( C. elegans and C. remanei ) that exhibit strikingly different Ne [ 23 , 50 ] .
This method was applied to 730 Kbp of shotgun sequencing-based diversity data from four wild strains of C. elegans that were compared to the genome sequence of Bristol N2 [ 51 ] and diversity data from 40 X-linked loci in C. remanei [ 52 ] .
We also propose a modification of an existing method where the statistical framework determines whether a set of proteins shows an association with the predefined phenotypes of interest .
This method was applied to our data generated from a monkey model ( Macaca fascicularis ) of Parkinson 's disease .
Here , we report a computational approach based on a novel machine learning technique , which enabled the identification of genome-wide TFBSs .
This method was applied to search for HNF4a gene targets .
Under this approach , to which we refer as the EWCL approach ( for Ewens , Watterson , Cornuet , and Luikart ; see Materials and Methods ) , population size change can not be dated or quantified .
This method was applied to the whole Kinabatangan dataset ( nine sampling units , n = 200 individuals , 14 loci ) .
Total reduced glutathione ( GSH ) was estimated by the method of Moron et al. [ 21 ] .
This method was based on the reaction of reduced glutathione with 5 , 5'dithio-bis ( 2-nitrobenzoic acid ) ( DTNB ) to give a compound that absorbs at 412 nm .
We recently developed an informatics method [ 13 ] to provide an estimate for the orderliness of synonymous codon usage ( SCUO ) and the amount of synonymous codon usage bias .
This method was based on the Shannon informatics theory and the entropy theory and allows the comparison of codon usage bias within and across genomes .
The HPLC analysis condition is : a C18 RP guard column ( 250 × 4.6 mm × 5 µm , Agilent Zorbax Extend ) .
This method was chosen because it gave the best resolution among several methods that were tested .
We have adopted a very common method that selects k to maximize the average silhouette ( described below ) .
This method was chosen because it utilizes the same framework employed in interpreting the clusters .
' Framework ' content analysis , an analytical process involving a number of distinct yet highly interconnected stages [ 20 ] , was used to categorise themes for discussion .
This method was chosen because of its ability to facilitate systematic analysis .
Analysis of the interviews was undertaken using the framework approach outlined by Pope et al and Ritchie and Spencer [ 31 , 32 ] .
This method was chosen due to time restraints and because this method is often used in health policy research contexts [ 33 ] .
For statistical analysis , we used the Significance Analysis of Microarray ( SAM ) software package from Stanford University [ 21 ] .
This method was chosen over conventional statistical tests because of its acceptance in the microarray community , its general simplicity and its ability to provide an estimate of the false discovery rate ( the ratio of false positives to total positives ) .
Cascade methodology was used ( i.e. one person from each group becomes an educator and runs their own sessions ) .
This method was chosen to reach as many people as possible while using a local person as the educator .
According to the multiple pressure-volume curve technique discussed earlier , this ventilator is the first to directly assess PEEP-related recruitment by simply calculating the volume difference between the first point of the PEEP pressure-volume curve and the volume read on the zero end-expiratory pressure-volume curve at the corresponding pressure .
This method was compared with the multiple occlusion technique on a bench model mimicking different compliance and resistance combinations [ 24 ] .
Intradermal needles are especially a very popular and safe technique .
This method was considered more effective than sham needle in CCTs ( 56 ) .
Data and results can be exported to other formats including PSI-MI , Excel and DTA ( Sequest files ) for additional analysis using other tools .
This method was created to exchange data easily between different laboratories .
In addition , de Lichtenberg et al. [ 62 ] once proposed an approach in which the timescales are first transformed from minutes to percentages of the cell cycle in different experiments in order to obtain one integrated global peak time .
This method was demonstrated to be useful to identify periodically expressed cell-cycle genes .
The solution phase Chemical Cleavage of Mismatch ( CCM ) is one of few methods capable of detecting nearly all single base mismatches [ 1 ] .
This method was developed in 1988 by Cotton et al. [ 2 ] and has been widely used in research and diagnosis of many inherited diseases .
Statistical analysis employing the RI between different samples or groups is straightforward , because it is simply a correlation coefficient , which is normally distributed and dimensionless [ 35 , 37 ] .
This method was developed to measure and compare the strength of rhythms in Drosophila heart function [ see [ 25 ] , and especially 40 , for a more rigorous presentation of the method ) , as well as for circadian luciferase expression in dissected antennae [ 13 ] .
In microarray analysis the labelling of genomic DNA by random priming and the incorporation of nucleotides tagged with fluorophores is accomplished using the Klenow fragment of the DNA polymerase .
This method was employed for LSplex amplified products obtained from 10 ng of S. aureus DNA template .
The method presented by Beckmann et al. [ 22 ] showcases the flexibility of Mantel statistics using haplotype sharing .
This method was employed to correlate temporal and spatial distributions of cancer in a generalized regression approach for SNP selections and disease gene mapping .
Household wealth was assessed by constructing an index using principal components analysis .
This method was established in epidemiology during the 1990s and has been used as a proxy for wealth assessment in the literature [ 18-20 ] .
Motivated by these results , we developed a DPA-based algorithm that successfully predicts small-molecule binding sites at locations where interactions cause a large change in protein vibrations [ 38 ] .
This method was evaluated in Ref .
Chou et al. [ 9 ] proposed the component-coupling algorithm that took into account the coupling effect among different amino acid components .
This method was ever thought to be one of the most accurate algorithms to predict protein structural classes .
Therefore , this method is well suited for generating sequences that can be recognized by both HMMER and Match , without giving an unfair disadvantage to any of the two methods .
This method was favored over inserting at random binding sites from the alignments used to generate the NWM or HMM in order to keep the training and test set separate and to evaluate the two methods based on their ability to detect sequences that are similar but not identical with the one already reported as it would be expected for novel bona fide binding sites .
Here we present the Sparse Vector Autoregressive model to approach these problems .
This method was first applied , with success , in neurosciences , to estimate functional connectivity between several brain areas [ 21 ] .
The interactions among the four most potent extracts in the 22Rv1 prostate carcinoma cell line were then analyzed using isobolographic analysis .
This method was first introduced by Loewe ( 19 ) in 1928 and has been widely utilized in interaction studies of both drugs and herbs ( 3 , 20-22 ) .
Subtractive hybridization is an attractive method for enriching differentially expressed genes .
This method was first used by Bautz and Reilly to purify phage T4 mRNA in the mid-1960 's [ 11 ] .
Longer mitochondrial ( 19-26 nucleotide ) gene encoding primers are likely to increase the reproducibility and specificity when compared to RAPD technique .
This method was found to be efficient , simple and highly reproducible .
More than one virus was detected in one third of the patients , but only by using the RT-PCR technique .
This method was found to be highly sensitive for a broad range of respiratory viruses ( RSV A and B , influenza virus A and B , parainfluenza virus 1-4 , rhinoviruses , adenoviruses , human coronavirus OC43 , NL63 , and 229E , and human metapneumovirus ) and atypical bacteria ( Mycoplasma pneumoniae and Clamydia pneumoniae ) .
An alternative method of collecting data from absent students was tested during the immediate post-intervention data collection sweep , whereby school staff were given absent students ' questionnaires and asked to arrange their completion and return ( by ' freepost ' ) .
This method was found to be less effective in maximising participation rates and its use has therefore been discontinued .
Hedman et al. [ 16 ] included information about predicted transmembrane segments into the standard Smith-Waterman and profile-search algorithms for membrane proteins by adding an extra delta ( score ) when two residues that are both predicted to belong to transmembrane segments are aligned .
This method was found to improve the detection rate , mainly by increasing specificity ( ie. decreasing the number of false positives ) .
They developed a matrix decomposition method called network component analysis ( NCA ) to determine transcription regulator activity .
This method was further extended as partial least squares ( PLS ) based network component analysis by Boulesteix and Strimmer [ 11 ] which offers an efficient and sound way to infer regulator activity for any given connectivity matrix without much restriction like NCA .
A comparative study published some years ago [ 11 , 17 ] indicated that the most accurate predictive method at that time is based on the prediction of turns .
This method was implemented in BEPITOPE [ 18 ] .
We accounted for correlations within medical practices using the generalized estimation equation ( GEE ) method [ 19 ] .
This method was implemented in generalized linear models with PROC GENMOD of SAS Version 9 ( SAS , Inc , Cary , North Carolina ) for logistic regression with correlated data [ 20 ] .
Very recently , a fast analysis of all SNPs in a genome-wide association study was described using a method akin to a penalised likelihood approach [ 24 ] .
This method was implemented to find a subset of SNPs that best explains case-control status in a disease study subject to a specified type-I error rate , but can also be used to select a subset for the prediction of phenotypes .
A second combinatorial control technique relies on temperature-dependent degradation of the mRNA of the target gene .
This method was independently proposed by several groups , but made practical by Getz , Xu and Fire ( A. Fire personal communication ) [ 3 ].The nonsense mediated decay ( NMD ) pathway specifically degrades mRNAs with long 3' untranslated regions containing many introns .
A faster model-fitting procedure can be devised by replacing the first phase of the Baum-Welch algorithm with a maximisation step .
This method was introduced in [ 17 ] as segmental k-means and is now commonly referred to as Viterbi training .
The third method ( RANK ) calculates a relevance score as described below .
This method was introduced in [ 25 ] to measure the relevance of gene-to-disease links .
The method was constructed from two procedures : 1 ) a fluorescent labeling reaction of PCR fragments using fluorescence-adapted primers in a single tube , and 2 ) electrophoresis on a non-denaturing polyacrylamide gel .
This method was more economical and convenient than the single-stranded conformational polymorphism ( SSCP ) methods previously reported in the detection of the labeled fragments obtained .
The heat pain thresholds were assessed by the ascending ramp method with a continuous stimulus , which increased intensity at a constant rate .
This method was more susceptible to provoking conditioned timed responses in the volunteers compared with the discrete stimuli used for the assessment of electrical current pain thresholds .
The MMPF analysis implemented the Hilbert-Huang transformation [ 12 ] technique to measure the coupling between two nonstationary signals .
This method was motivated by the fact that the original BP and BFV signals are recorded over time .
In our analysis , the authors automatically computed the number of structured abstracts in Group A by a method that uses regular expressions to look for section headings .
This method was not evaluated and some errors may potentially exist .
They used an iterative linear regression algorithm based on intensity data from several scans for correcting spot intensities both above and below the usable range .
This method was particularly useful in their experiments , where an extended intensity dynamics of the arrays was achieved due to the use of high intensity oligo samples hybridized in conjunction with cDNAs .
First , the multivariate factor analysis was performed with the FACTANAL function , with the maximum likelihood estimate option and the " Varimax " rotation , in Splus version 6.2 of Insightful Corp. , Seattle , WA .
This method was performed first on 10 conventional MetS risk variables .
The methodology developed for use in analysing industrial accidents has been adapted for use in a healthcare setting , classifying ' error producing circumstances ' and ' organisational factors ' in a single broad framework of factors affecting clinical practice [ 16 ] .
This method was previously used in a similar study of UK general practitioners and involves inviting comments about the cause of delayed diagnosis and summarising the discussion on a white board and recording comments verbatim [ 17 ] .
Szabo et al [ 20 ] discuss conditions under which this method is a valid one for testing two-sample hypotheses with microarray data .
This method was proposed by Tsodikov et al [ 19 ] and discussed further in [ 20 ] .
Combined with suppression PCR , selective amplification of differentially expressed cDNA sequences was achieved without the application of physical separation methods [ 7 ] .
This method was recently applied to isolate taproot expressed genes from sugar beet [ 8 ] .
The DNA cards method has been used to collect DNA samples in several clinical studies focusing on infective pathogens , such as malaria [ 5 , 10 ] , staphylococcus [ 11 ] , or HIV [ 12 ] , Gaucher disease [ 13 ] and cancer [ 4 , 14 ] .
This method was selected to perform a pharmacogenetic substudy .
The initial analysis of the data suggested a putative minor expansion in the CACNA1A gene ( case 1 ) by gel electrophoresis that was subsequently refuted by capillary electrophoresis .
This method was subsequently applied to 55 candidate loci that we identified as part of our computational screen for polyglutamine-encoding tracts in the human genome ( Butland et al. , in submission ) .
Pybus et al. [ 14 ] presented the " skyline plot " method that uses a step-function to approximate the population history obtained from an estimated genealogy .
This method was subsequently refined to the " generalized skyline plot " [ 17 ] which is essentially a regularized version of the classic skyline plot .
In particular , our analysis revealed the emergence of links between a core set of pathways in the cMyc dataset which may play an important role for the comprehension of the early phenotypical changes following cMyc activation .
This method was successful in identifying changes in gene expression profiles related to the acute response to a perturbation both in model systems and in humans as well as in revealing the centrality and importance of selected pathways by its multiscale generalization .
Finally , a plenary session was held during which students had the opportunity of listing the positive and negative attributes that had emerged during their analysis , providing clarification where required , and discussing themes derived .
This method was successfully piloted in July 2000 at the Townsville Disease Control course , and then employed in Pretoria during October 2000 and Townsville in May 2001 .
Recently an elegant method for introducing point mutations into the genome was devised by Resnick and colleagues that does not require cloning of the mutant allele [ 17 ] .
This method was termed delitto perfetto ( Italian slang for perfect murder ) because the mutation is introduced into the genome without leaving any remnants of non-native sequence .
An alternative technique used for selecting high producer clones , which consists in direct labeling of cells with a fluorescent antibody ( without permeabilisation or fixation ) followed by flow cytometry analysis has been described [ 27 ] .
This method was tested on our strong CHO-IGF-E5 ( clone L ) and on a parental CHO negative control .
To prioritize the potential internal controls for Q-RT-PCR analyses and to study the possibility of general utilization of these potential internal controls , we first applied the block bootstrapping technique to rank genes with variance and IQR ( Fig. 1 ) .
This method was then used to evaluate the gene expression patterns of the various internal controls in a lung adenocarcinoma microarray dataset ( referred to as NHRI dataset ) with the goal to provide insights into which internal controls might be a best choice in this study .
Redundant probe sets representing the same tentative consensus ( TC ) sequences or Unigene were removed and the 2,947 genes with significant differential expression patterns of 2-fold or greater were grouped into 12 clusters by hierarchical clustering using the complete agglomeration method and Euclidean distance metric according to mRNA expression within each tissue in comparison with the other two ( Figure 1 ; Additional file 1 ) .
This method was used as opposed to correlation-based clustering approaches ( i.e. , Pearson correlation ) because it resulted in the best resolution of 12 distinct clusters illustrating tissue-specific expression patterns .
In the first approach , gene expression of CD11b+ cells from mice after sublethal pYV+ and sublethal ?yopH infection was compared .
This method was used to compare gene expression associated with similar outcome of disease ; however , the different bacterial splenic counts and different composition of CD11b+ subpopulations has to be considered in subsequent comparative analyses .
For statistical analysis we used a Bayesian linear model [ 40 ] and the Holm multiple testing correction to adjust individual p-values .
This method was used to compare the isolates to the reference strains .
A specific evaluation method adapted to military syndromic surveillance objectives and conditions of engagement in the field was developed .
This method was used to evaluate the FR 2SE FAG and UK PRISM and RMS systems .
RDAM is a method for identifying genes with changing expression levels using the user-determined FDR and/or S selection parameters .
This method was used to study the effects of a thermosensitive mutation of TOR2 in yeast .
The advent of molecular biology tools , especially the PCR multiplex technique , opens new avenues of research : this method enables easy determination of sex , stage and physiological status using only a fragment of a mosquito morphologically assigned to An. gambiae s.l. [ 14 ] .
This method was used to update the distribution of the An. gambiae in Madagascar and to determine the ecological factors that influence the observed distribution of each species on the basis of bioclimatic domains and altitudes .
The second method has the advantage of providing a more understandable scale .
This method was validated on a sorted cell population of less than fifty cells ( data not shown ) , demonstrating that it could be adapted to samples with a very small yield of DNA [ 16 ] .
In this report , we describe a new microarray-based method for estimating the allele frequency in pooled DNA samples based on the physical principles of DNAs immobilization and hybridization on solid surface .
This method well suits large-scale genetic association study , and has a number of advantages : capability of scaling up both in the numbers of SNPs and pooled samples ( cases and controls ) by utilizing microarray platform , assay of thousands of SNPs on one chip under uniform conditions , employing only two universal fluorescently labeled tags for thousands of SNPs , and no post-PCR processing .
A recent publication described a supervised classification method for microarray data : Between Group Analysis ( BGA ) .
This method which is based on performing multivariate ordination of groups proved to be very efficient for both classification of samples into pre-defined groups and disease class prediction of new unknown samples .
Then , we included in our weighted average analysis the peak replication fraction and any other fraction that had > = to 50 % of the peak value .
This method while not producing an exact replication time does provide a good estimate , and allows for comparison among markers .
Whenever there is homology between species , there is an opportunity for identification probes with detectable hybridization signal using probe level analysis described here .
This method will accelerate genome-wide analysis in experimental models for which species-specific gene arrays are not currently available .
We present an approach for characterizing mixed , highly degraded PCR templates such as those often encountered in ecological studies using non-invasive samples as a source of DNA , wildlife forensics investigations and ancient DNA research .
This method will allow researchers to measure template quality in order to evaluate alternate sources of DNA , different methods of sample preservation and different DNA extraction protocols .
The famous Lempel-Ziv algorithm can efficiently extract the information on repeated patterns encoded in RNA secondary structures and makes our method an alternative to analyze the similarity of RNA secondary structures .
This method will also be useful to researchers who are interested in evolutionary analysis .
Our method of gene selection will not return sets of genes that are highly correlated , because they are redundant .
This method will be most useful under two scenarios : a ) when considering the design of diagnostic tools , where having a small set of probes is often desirable ; b ) to help understand the results from other gene selection approaches that return many genes , so as to understand which ones of those genes have the largest signal to noise ratio and could be used as surrogates for complex processes involving many correlated genes .
By the method we proposed , we could determine the robust stability under intrinsic fluctuations and identify the genes that are significantly affected by extrinsic noises , which we call the weak structure of the network .
This method will be potential for robust gene circuit design in future , on which a drug design could be based .
In summary , we have developed a powerful new technique that allows the rapid , safe , and transient expression of single / multiple genes in NPCs cultured as monolayer , while simultaneously permitting the long-term tracking of the transfected cells and their progeny .
This method will be valuable for testing the effect of single / multiple transgene manipulation on NPC fate determination both in vitro and in vivo .
We have presented a method to test the significance of expression changes within a group of genes , while considering the correlation structure among genes in each group .
This method will enable the rapid detection of microarray evidence indicating altered cell functions or pathways , and will facilitate the interpretation of microarray outcomes .
First , Manuscript Architect will be linked to literature maps , a method developed for structured literature reviews .
This method will enhance the accuracy of literature citations as well as allow the literature search to run in parallel with other project activities .
At the political level , critical incidents analysis is being used .
This method will identify how decisions regarding the implementation of e-health could be influenced or not by scientific knowledge .
The spectral method is an indirect method which measures the magnitude of TA as the amplitude of spectral power at the 0.5 cycles per beat frequency and then subtracts the mean background noise .
This method will not compensate for the presence of superposed noise contamination of the 0.5 frequency component amplitude which is then squared to derive the power term .
In this study , Pyrosequencing was used to determine allele frequencies at each of the six SNPs in MSP-119 , and an algorithm was developed to reconstruct the frequency of MSP-119 haplotypes in mixed malaria infections .
This method will provide a time- and cost-effective alternative to PCR cloning for monitoring parasite populations before and after vaccine introduction .
The qPCR technique provides a quantitative measurement of DNA copy number and accurately characterizing chromosomal breakpoints .
This method will therefore permit the identification of individuals who would otherwise go undetected by the currently available clinical FISH methods .
A conservative adjustment method ( Bonferroni 's adjustment ) is to divide the experiment-wise Type I error level ( a ) by the number of hypotheses tested ( N = 22,283 ) and use that as the cut-off for significant p-values .
This method will usually result in very few , if any , significant p-values .
In this study , we proposed a scoring method ( Eq. 1 ) that combined the predicted variance information to compare two spectra under total ion current normalization .
This method worked well in validating the intensity model and could be used for peptide identification .
The expectation-maximization ( EM ) algorithm developed by Excoffier and Slatkin uses maximum likelihood methods to determine the most probable haplotype assignment given the observed sample genotypes and the estimated population haplotype frequencies ( under the assumption of Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium ) .
This method works best for large sample sizes , and uses several sets of starting conditions to avoid convergence on local maxima [ 20 ] .
( 3 ) Bisecting K Means ( BKM ) : The initial centroids are calculated using a variation of the Bisecting K Means algorithm [ 10 ] .
This method works by first randomly selecting one gene ( gene0 ) from the data .
Two basic computational approaches were used to study the workings of such integrated models : ( i ) rFBA ( regulatory flux balance analysis ) —a method for simulating growth in batch cultures by predicting dynamic flux profiles ( i.e. , a series of steady-state flux distributions ) in a changing environment ( Covert et al , 2001 , 2004 ; Herrgard et al , 2006 ) .
This method works by iteratively predicting a regulatory and metabolic steady state for short successive time intervals .
Another approach is to search only transcribed sequences in the form of expressed sequence tags [ 7 , 8 ] .
This method works for nonsequenced genomes and efficiently reduces the search space , probably leading to a lower number of false positives , but the method also misses candidates not covered by the expressed sequence tag libraries .
For example , UniqueProt [ 8 ] is a fast and simple method that reduces the redundancy of the dataset by removing over-represented sequences , based on a user-defined percent identity threshold .
This method works reasonably well when the proteins have similar domain architectures .
In the analysis , a continuous portion of an antigen is sequentially substituted into a different sequence .
This method works well for an antibody recognizing a linear epitope , but not for that recognizing a discontinuous epitope .
The AAA activities , other than those associated with cholinesterases ( like those found in human liver , rat serum , pineal gland ) and amidases that utilise o-nitroacetanilide as substrate can be visualised by the method described above .
This method would also allow detection of such activities in crude tissue extracts , however , a minimum of 0.07 U of the enzyme has to be loaded per well to clearly visualise the activity in gels , which is the limit of detectability of this method .
Accomplishing this transfer forms a foundation for quantitative approaches to intraoperative surgical planning and outcomes assessment in valvular reconstructive surgery .
This method would also be applicable to next generation " live 3D " systems , 3D ultrasound data sets obtained from matrix array transducers .
Another issue with this method of identifying double recombinants is that if a single recombinant occurs in both siblings , and the recombinant occurs on one side of a given marker in the first sibling and on the other side of that marker in the second sibling , the two siblings could in fact share an additional allele IBD for only that single marker .
This method would have no way of distinguishing between a double recombinant and two single recombinants occurring in almost the exact same chromosomal region in two individual siblings and may account for some of the false positives that have been encountered .
However , this approach requires the number of observations at each time of interest to be large for the Normal distribution-based assumptions upon which it is based to remain valid .
This method would not be suitable for diseases , such as admissions of colic cases to a hospital , in which the counts per month are relatively small ( i.e. typically less than 30 ) .
In the first stage , the SVM-RFE technique was most efficient and robust in the presence of low number of samples and high input space dimension .
This method yielded an optimal subset of 14 representative features , which were all related to energy and sequence motifs .
To avoid training data sparseness and to structure the hypothesis space based on the entire protein distribution , we have proposed a prediction method that uses Joachims ' spectral graph transducer and is trained on both structure-known sequences and structure-unknown sequences .
This method yielded MCCs 0.202 points higher than the MCC yielded by the method plotting hydrophobicity vs. net charge ( FoldIndex ) and 0.221 points higher than the MCC yielded by the method plotting hydrophobicity against the number of contacts .
We present a novel method of using commercial oligonucleotide expression microarrays for aCGH , enabling DNA copy number measurements and expression profiles to be combined using the same platform .
This method yields aCGH data from genomic DNA without complexity reduction at a median resolution of approximately 17,500 base pairs .
Results from the integration of Bayesian tests and other machine learning techniques with linkage disequilibrium data suggest that we do not need to use too stringent thresholds to reduce the number of false positive associations .
This method yields increased power even with relatively small samples .
One widely used method is the LD50 assay , which is defined as the number of bacteria required to kill 50 % of the infected hosts .
This method yields valuable data pertaining to the cumulative , absolute virulence of the bacterium , which can theoretically be compared between laboratories .
