In order to compare U133A and U133 Plus 2.0 data , we further normalized the data with a rank-based normalization method .

In addition , HRV power spectral analysis lightens the burden imposed on subjects during an experiment , unlike invasive measurements , i.e. , plasma catecholamine concentration and muscle sympathetic nerve activity .

The Ortholuge method reported here appears to significantly improve the specificity ( precision ) of high-throughput ortholog prediction for both bacterial and eukaryotic species .

In the Bioinformatics field , a great deal of interest has been given to Non-negative matrix factorization technique ( NMF ) , due to its capability of providing new insights and relevant information about the complex latent relationships in experimental data sets .

The interfacial stiffness was defined as the slope ( Nm / degree of the torque-rotation curve ) calculated from a linear regression analysis of the data between 0 , 5° and 3° .

Out of 41 naturally contaminated infant formulae and environmental samples analysed for the presence of E. sakazakii , 23 were positive by real-time PCR and 22 by the conventional culture method , giving 97.5 % concordance with the ISO-IDF reference method .

The second method used was that of cumulated amounts ( CUSUM ) [ 13 , 14 ] , non routinely used by the systems in French Guiana and used with a verification aim .

The choice of the transition point ( s ) and the output format depend closely on one another ; regardless of this , the algorithm selects points that are consistent in their location on each distribution for any given analysis .

We designed a method for identifying transcript sequence pairs that are putatively orthologous between the two species considered .

We designed a method for identifying transcript sequence pairs that are putatively orthologous between the two species considered .

Susceptibility testing was performed by Stokes ' method [ 9 ] on Iso-Sensitest ( Oxoid Limited , Basingstoke , UK ) agar plates .

A graph-clustering method based on flow simulation ( Markov chain graph clustering , MCL ) was used to identify clusters in this network that correspond to the sets of coexpressed genes .

We present a method that harnesses the statistical power provided by having several HDONAs available , which are obtained under similar conditions except for the experimental factor .

The air sampling and extraction methodology developed in this study should be applicable to the detection of rhinovirus and other airborne viruses in the indoor air of offices and schools .

One approach to the evaluation of this natural behaviour of QT dynamics is to evaluate it over several minutes of stable narrow ranges of heart rate .

A widely used method in metabolomics is principal component analysis .

In the study by Blackshaw et al. [ 7 ] , the candidate photoreceptor-specific genes were selected by comparative analysis between SAGE libraries on the basis of four chosen criteria ( see Results Section ) .

Historically , serological analysis of allele-specific sera was used to identify the structural differences on the surface of the HLA molecules due to the nucleotide present at the site of the polymorphism .

Another approach , proposed by Joung et al. [ 14 ] , tries to combine multiple information sources to extract the MRMs .

Other approaches to the quantification of the ER and the PR described in the literature have used antibody-conjugated fluorophores and fluorescent microscopy systems [ 19 , 20 ] .

A method here referred to as the smoother appeared in [ 9 ] .

Here , we propose a method that predicts nsSNPs based on the SVM [ 38 ] .

For this purpose , and because of concerns related to the available genotyping techniques mentioned above , we developed a novel analysis method based on classical detection of genetic variants by dideoxy fingerprinting [ 23 , 24 ] .

Moreover , apart from its intrinsic utility , one of the other important contributions of this approach is that it was the first to be made available on-line ( ) .

Two related papers [ 23 , 24 ] describe a method for local structural similarity detection , which is of great relevance since it is able to evaluate the statistical significance of each match .

Wang and Xu [ 46 ] overcame this limitation by designing an algorithm with a global optimization goal .

Here , we propose a new and unbiased approach that is capable of inducing intermediate-scale conformational changes by continually applying a local perturbation throughout a short MD simulation .

Here , we propose an integrated statistical method to estimate the effective SNP size .

Yet another straightforward and popular method is to select a classification that maximizes a measure of difference between the two groups , such as the p-value of a chi square statistic [ 9 , 10 ] .

We developed a gene cluster classification method that circumvents these limitations and links biological function with gene expression patterns derived from microarray experiments .

The method will allow for the detection of any subjects that have probe set values that differ drastically from a mean and outside of a certain threshold ( e.g. Standard deviations from a mean ) .

Then , the pellet of white cells was collected ( in accordance with a previously described approach [ 7 ] ) and incubated with FITC-conjugated mouse anti-human epithelial antibody ( HEA ; Miltenyi Bergisch Gladbach , Germany ) , and live cells in suspension were applied to a poly-L-lysine treated slide , which was analyzed using a Laser Scanning Cytometer® ( Compucyte Corporation , Cambridge , MA , USA ) [ 11 ] .

Recently , an isothermal WGA method was introduced using bacteriophage F29 DNA polymerase and random hexamer primers [ 9 , 10 ] .

Here , we present a new method for multiplex PCR that simplifies assay development and provides several technological advantages that facilitate fluorescence-based SSR genotyping and the multiplexed preparation of DNA templates for SNP detection .

Recently , we have introduced a new automated method for the assay of the plasma antioxidant capacity , based on the bleaching of crocin .

( ii ) The identification of consistent , steady-state metabolic and regulatory behaviors in a given , constant environment , using an extreme pathway analysis ( Covert and Palsson , 2003 ) .

Given variation in squirrel and capuchin monkey size and , consequently , in allometric shape variation associated with those size differences , a normalization technique to scale data and remove allometric effects was applied [ 20 , 24 ] .

The MLVA method can be applied to S. uberis genotyping and constitutes an interesting complement to existing typing methods .

The most widely accepted method employs the ' constant majority ' method , which assumes that the majority of reporters do not change in ratio .

In that paper , our pKa measurements on acetic acid in DMSO-water systems were based on the potentiometric method , using properly calibrated glass electrodes , which determine the activity of H+ , and on estimates of the activity coefficients of the acetate ion .

We extended this method for the detection , quantification , and analysis of recombination products in both male and female germ lines .

For genes that could not be grouped into coordinately perturbed functional classes , a further statistical assessment was performed through significance analysis of time-series data using EDGE [ 37 , 38 ] .

In contrast to the cluster and enrichment analysis techniques mentioned above , the analysis is not restricted to single differentially expressed genes ; rather , all possible gene pairs are explored for phenotype-related dependencies and interactions .

The model investigated in this work is simulated using the Gillespie algorithm [ 28 ] , implemented as a C++ function linked to MATLAB ( The MathWorks , Inc. 2008 ) .

To date , only one method for prediction of the residue depth based on the protein sequence was developed [ 30 ] .

An alternative approach to correct for multiple testing could be to use permutation testing and assess the distribution of a maximum test statistic or minimum P-value after repeating the entire two-stage procedure n times ( for example with n = 1,000 ) [ 74 , 75 ] .

We have developed a novel method for selecting significant genes in comparative gene expression studies .

The most popular bioconjugation technique involves the use of a zero-length crosslinker , 1-ethyl-3- [ 3-dimethylaminopropyl ] carbodiimide hydrochloride ( EDCHCl ) [ 1-4 , 6 , 7 ] , in the presence of a hydrophilic active group , N-hydroxysulfosuccinimide ( sulfo-NHS ) [ 8 ] , for the formation of a stable amide bond between carboxylic acid-functionalized QDs ( QD-COOH ) and any biomolecules containing a primary amine [ 9 ] ( Figure 1 ) .

Box-Jenkins modeling , also called the Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average ( ARIMA ) method , seems promising for complementing infectious disease theories by describing the component structure ( " non explanatory " analysis ) of statistical time series .

The second generation of SS prediction methods started by the method of Garnier , Osguthorpe and Robson ( GOR method ) [ 12 ] and improved in several steps [ 13 ] .

The propensity score-adjusted bootstrapping method was also used to test the mean differences of costs for the 2 high level crisis event groups : patients with 2 or more crisis-event variables and patients with 3 or more crisis-event variables .

The survival analysis residual method attempts to detect a genetic effect on the age of onset of obesity / overweight .

Since this work was completed , an extension to the OCTOPUS method which incorporates signal peptide prediction , SPOCTOPUS [ 22 ] , has been released .

In this paper , we present an algorithm to compute the representation of a metabolic network .

Lately , Wang , et al. [ 16 ] developed an elegant algorithm , positive sample only learning ( PSoL ) , to predict non-coding RNA ( ncRNA ) genes by generating an optimized negative class of ncRNA from so-called " unlabeled " data using two-class SVM .

Two measured blood pressures were generated for each individual in the population using a previously described methodology [ 7-9 ] .

First described by Dekker et al. , 2002 [ 14 ] , chromosome conformation capture allows the analysis of spatial organization of chromosomes .

We compared the gene lists generated by the RFE method to the result of a meta-analysis approach as described by Rhodes et al. [ 8 ] .

The data were analyzed using qualitative methods of content analysis and constant comparison , derived from grounded theory approach [ 11 ] .

[ 12 , 13 ] We felt that the Delphi procedure was the optimum method to obtain consensus on the items to be included in the tool as well as the phrasing and scoring of items .

To test whether the interaction between Spn-F and Ik2 protein was direct and also to enable biomolecular interaction analysis of Spn-F with Ik2 , we used the multichannel ProteOn system ( Bio-Rad ) .

Our overall approach takes advantage of the transparency of the nematode and allows us to visualize gene expression in vivo , in real time , in a living animal .

For the instances where mediation was demonstrated ( when all four conditions were met ) , we calculated the proportion of the relationship between relationship style and match in a primary care specialty that was mediated by the specialty choice factors , using the methods of Shrout and Bolger [ 29 ] .

In this report we present a technique for determining compounds toxicity on THP-1 cells .

The advantage of the Y1H screen compared to biochemical in vitro techniques , such as DNA affinity chromatography , or the identification of DNA binding proteins seen in electrophoretic mobility shift assays using high-resolution two-dimensional electrophoresis coupled with MS [ 11 ] , is that the procedure does not require specific optimisation of in vitro conditions .

The nonlinear minimisation function of the R-package [ 33 ] uses a Newton-type algorithm [ 34 , 35 ] .

The nonlinear minimisation function of the R-package [ 14 ] uses a Newton-type algorithm [ 22 , 23 ] .

A new method has been introduced recently [ 16 ] that might approach natural biocombinatorics principles much more than any earlier trial .

Another method , which will reduce the number of ambiguities in the B locus , is the utilization of a two tube group amplification approach ( DYNAL Biotech , Brown Deer , WI ) .

" Protein-trap " is a method that allows epitope-tagging of endogenous proteins .

( 2 ) Another method uses the mean and standard deviations of the mean signal intensities of all negative control spots as a surrogate for mean and standard deviation of background intensity of each spot [ 15 ] .

We have established a method for the comparison of the relative fitness of L. monocytogenes strains utilising a novel , stable integrative plasmid , pIMC , based on the pPL2 phage integrase plasmid .

Digital karyotyping is a SAGE ( serial analysis of gene expression ) based method to enumerate genomic DNA tags [ 8 ] .

The SW has been extensively used in DNA polymorphism studies for exploratory data analysis [ 22 ] .

Final alignment among aa sequences within each group was generated with PROALIGN V0.4 ( available at [ 38 ] ) , a program implementing a method for multiple sequence alignment that combines an HMM approach , a progressive alignment algorithm , and a probabilistic evolution model describing the character substitution process [ 39 ] .

In conclusion , BsaXI RFLP analysis is a simple and rapid approach for the single step determination of D310 polymorphism of mitochondrial DNA .

The path analysis used structural equation modeling [ 24 ] where all 4 time-points were represented in all models tested .

In an attempt to better understand the importance of sucrose mobilization in this pathway , a yeast invertase was expressed in an inducible manner in growing potato tubers [ 33 ] , and the metabolite changes were monitored by a metabolite profiling approach coupling mass spectrometry to gas chromatography [ 1 ] .

Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis ( 2-DE ) coupling MS is the most classic and well-established proteomic approach .

Retrospective analysis of the data was then performed to compare the ability of a number of different subdistrict weekly incidence thresholds to detect the epidemics early .

Earlier we have proposed a simple method to carry out the restriction enzymes analysis of mammalian DNA in silico based on the known DNA sequences of eukaryotic genomes [ 11 ] .

A third popular method is the lipid film 's hydration : a phospholipid solution in chloroform is dried under vacuum to obtain a lipid film ; this lipid film is subsequently hydrated in a solution containing the protein [ 9 , 10 ] .

Linkage disequilibrium ( LD ) and haplotype analysis was performed using THESIAS software based on the SEM algorithm [ 27 , 28 ] .

The approach of time-frequency analysis to single EEG trials we used was developed by Makeig et al. ( 2002 ) [ 11 ] .

We report here a reliable automated microscopy method for quantitative measurement of myosin light chain phosphorylation in adherent cells .

Here we outline an analysis strategy based on fitting regression splines with step basis functions to time course data .

In PRAGA several genetic algorithms run in parallel and exchange individual solutions .

We also evaluated the proposed method on all SAPs obtained from the Swiss-Prot , the method achieves 0.42 MCC with 73.2 % overall accuracy .

We have used this method extensively to evaluate the species specificity , reproducibility and to discriminate among the three different characterised populations of teak defoliator .

We have established an immunocytochemical and image analysis method by which the intracellular levels of the enzyme PGHS-1 can be monitored throughout the differentiation of megakaryoblastic cells into platelet-like structures .

Lown’s rationale for this approach was to minimise post-shock arrhythmia [ 18 ] .

Table 3 summarized the results of predictions obtained in this way , using a leave-one-out method .

We also expected that CIs based on the GEE estimator of location would be narrower than the Zlr-bootstrap CIs because the GEE method jointly models the IBD sharing pattern at all markers .

A highly accurate method has been developed for predicting subcellular location of mycobacterial proteins .

The set association approach manages the dimensionality problem by reducing the number of markers to a smaller number of important markers .

HMM-B2TMR , is a profile-based HMM method , that was trained for the first time on a non-redundant set of 12 outer membrane proteins [ 17 ] and later ( current version ) on a larger dataset of 15 outer membrane proteins [ 55 ] .

The relative performance of the four IBDQ dimensions in distinguishing best patients with minor symptoms from those with severe , was studied by discriminant analysis .

Recently , a method for unique oligo discovery that was a modification of a central pattern partitioning principle was published [ 17 ] .

Limma is a statistical method which can be used to identify differentially expressed genes in complex microarray experiments .

He described how this approach led to the assembly of the genome of a virtual organism , suggested to be a free-living Gram-negative bacterium , with a 2.25 megabase ( Mb ) genome containing two rRNAs and 45 tRNAs .

Both PCA and fractal analysis of the FFT data could discriminate successfully between the fracture and control groups , although PCA was significantly stronger than fractal dimension .

In a previous study , we identified motifs associated with life span extension in sch9? , ras2? , and tor1? using a cut-off based method [ 29 ] .

Finally , PROQRES is the only method in this set , which has been developed specifically to predict local errors in crude protein models .

In order to separate the effect of the method from the procedure to impute the missing values , we repeated the analysis both by filtering out all the genes with missing observations and by using the KNN method to impute them .

However , the rigorous tableau searching method is too slow for a full database search , and so Konagurthu et al. [ 18 ] introduce TableauSearch .

Our method [ 17 , 25 ] measures the change in forearm blood flow using venous occlusion plethysmography following the local , intra-arterial infusion of vasoactive substances .

Randomisation took place using stratified randomisation , in particular the minimisation method described by Pocock [ 19 ] .

The multifactor-dimensionality reduction ( MDR ) method [ 2 ] was developed specifically to detect higher-order interactions among polymorphisms even when the marginal effects are very small .

We demonstrate the utility of this method on four examples comprised of one non-coding data set and three coding data sets .

Structure 2.2 ( http : / / pritch.bsd.uchicago.edu / structure.html ) was used to detect cryptic population structure using the model-based approach of Pritchard et al. [ 34 ] .

One proposed approach is to find the maximum likelihood estimate for the scale of the variance for each print-tip group [ 16 ] .

Phylogenetic relationships among proteins were estimated using a maximum likelihood analysis of amino acid sequences with the Jones-Taylor-Thornton probability model of amino acid changes [ 55 ] .

For that , in the here-illustrated example , we applied the method of Singular Value Decomposition ( SVD ) , the equivalent of principal components analysis .

We compute the q-values using the following algorithm , based on Storey and Tibshirani [ 21 ] .

In the 2003-2004 survey , a pool of about 45,000 telephone numbers from complete listings of conventional telephone extensions belonging to private households in Germany was randomly generated , applying the Häder-Gabler method [ 29 ] .

In consultation with the executive members of these associations , all 4,045 names of the members of the associations were obtained through stratified sampling and a probability sampling method was used to select 600 respondents for the questionnaire survey .

We then used the noninvasive technique of fluorescence microscopy on intact , living leaf tissue as an independent approach to confirm the localization of N and p50-U1 .

For this purpose , we chose to apply the " nearest shrunken centroid " algorithm , as proposed by Tibshirani et al [ 17 , 20 ]. , utilized by taking advantage of the publicly available PAM software package [ 19 , 20 ] .

In summary , the control method is essentially a restriction to STEPS 1 and 2 of our identification method ( see Results section ) .

The direct digital transfer is - with respect to workflow integration and image quality - obviously the most attractive method and is the preferred way in the context of the establishment of PACS .

We propose an Interaction-Identifier method to identify the candidate form of interaction among the TFs and RNA polymerase ( RNAP ) on the promoter of a target gene .

Another approach is to employ comparative sequence analysis .

Tackling these difficulties , we utilize a novel approach for quantitative rigorous multiple-knockouts analysis , the Multiple-perturbations Shapley value Analysis ( MSA , See Methods ) , a methodology introduced at [ 13 ] .

We also tested a third described method for cell lysis , which is grinding deep-frozen cells with a mortar [ 20-22 ] .

We have proposed a new method to analyze the protein-protein interaction network grounded on the combination of a clustering algorithm of the vertices and a refined method allowing to assign a function to proteins of yet unknown function .

A third approach is to use Bayesian statistics to infer divergence times .

The temporal method BDL was used to test specific hypotheses of diversification rate shifts [ 39 , 53 ] .

A suitable algorithm was previously utilized [ 9-11 ] but not described in detail .

Previously we developed a method to predict CRMs based on TF interactions [ 11 ] .

To calculate the costs of production loss due to sick leave , we used the friction-costs method [ 33 ] .

Since the latter method allows for direct computation of the thresholds for all traits , whereas the simulation required significant computing time for each trait , we used the thresholds obtained using the effective number of markers .

The temporal method allows to estimate the effective population size through the analysis of the variation in the allele frequencies of temporally spaced samples of a given population [ 41 ] .

Our whole-genome approach will prove particularly helpful when elucidating mechanisms of drug resistance in vitro or in clinical isolates of P. falciparum , as demonstrated by the identification of pfdxr amplification in fosmidomycin resistance .

The most recent studies considered the number of patient-days according to the method described by Rosendaal [ 15 , 16 , 21 ] .

Complementary to any other disease gene and SNP association study , this approach can help to prioritize the genes that need to be validated and further help to elucidate the genetic contribution to the development of cancer .

The classical optimization method ( single variable optimization ) is not only time-consuming and tedious but also does not depict the complete effects of the parameters in the process and ignores the combined interactions between physicochemical parameters .

Chan et al. used a non-alignment based method ( FastCompare ) to identify conserved k-mers in worm and fly [ 24 , 31 ] .

To synthesize these approaches , we explore sensitivity landscapes , which provide a global picture of parameter sensitivities while identifying how intrinsic properties of individual neurons influence their firing patterns .

An advantage of our proposed method relative to testing procedures based on genotypic data is that only p-value data are needed .

We have developed a drug target prediction method based solely on protein sequence information without the knowledge of family / domain annotation , or the protein 3D structure .

I will start by describing the steps to implement the method before explaining how to derive those steps .

We have developed a Bayesian network approach to find regulatory rules enriched in a foreground sequences , for example the promoters of a set of co-regulated genes , compared with the background sequences .

Unlike many existing methods , our proposed method is simple and effective .

Further comparative analysis identified coordinated mutations of specific residues at the predicted interfaces .

In any case , when the inter-SNP distance is small ( < 1 cM ) , one can employ the MILC method to take care of recombination , and then single-point linkage analysis has more power .

I described an algorithm which addresses the evolution of gaps as an extra residue in a ( N + 1 ) × ( N + 1 ) substitution matrix .

A method is described which permits the calculation of a general similarity measure , the n-gram score , without having to reveal the data being compared , albeit at some cost in computation and data communication .

We used the results of these studies to show that mutual information analysis is highly effective for identifying systematic differences between sets of sequences .

With the long-term aim of setting up a screening method to identify novel regulatory cis-acting sequence elements and the associated multimeric complexes , we have evaluated the use of uv-crosslinking .

The extension of the training set based on the co-author graph and synonym lists is one step closer to the " classical " context-based approaches - namely looking for gene names in the text of the abstracts .

We propose a method for an integrated study of survival time and gene expression .

Postoperatively , the technique may allow further graft monitoring as a more sensitive adjunct to clinical monitoring to detect early graft failure .

Detailed analysis of the predicted drug targets with examples proves the effectiveness and predictive power of the model built .

The first approach allowed us to prioritize nine " candidate " SNP-SNP interactions that were consistently selected by the stepwise procedure across the bootstrap samples ( i.e. in more than 30 % of the 1,000 random samples ) and that were significant based on the age adjusted bootstrap P-values .

Therefore we developed a method that relates variations in kinetic parameters to differences in protein structures .

The iterative clustering method offers considerable improvement over clustering in all genes .

By capitalizing on the ease , sensitivity and reproducibility of SELDI-TOF-MS , a novel non-radioactive , mass spectrometry-based method has been developed to study phosphorylation events .

We have developed a computational method to estimate the pre-miRNA content and to predict the location of precursor miRNAs in genomic sequences .

The jerboas were decapitated and the livers ( 75 g total ) were rapidly removed for mitochondria purification according to the technique described by Fleischer et al. [ 41 ] and as previously used by Mountassif et al. [ 42 ] .

The Negative Subtraction Hybridization method described here has several practical benefits .

Here , we demonstrate how the use of SQUAD helps to simulate the behavior of regulatory networks , modeled with the standardized qualitative dynamical systems methodology .

To date , most investigations of electrical impedance of acupuncture points or meridians have used a two-electrode method , i.e. , the two electrodes used to introduce an electrical current were also connected to a voltmeter to measure the voltage between the two electrodes [ 1-4 , 6-8 , 10 , 11 , 14 , 15 ] .

Although one approach typically used to quantify motility when utilizing the phagokinetic assay is to report a total area cleared , we feel that reporting the area cleared per cell is more representative of cell motility than reporting total area cleared , as this quantity will not be confounded by cell division .

Currently , the most reliable method for the study of miRNA expression is Northern blot analysis with polyacrylamide gels .

Stepanova et al [ 25 ] developed a method which can be used for the prediction of hormone-response elements ( HRE ) de novo .

For example , Wang and Rannala [ 23 ] used an additive selection model and a forward approach with a normal approximation to the binomial selection process .

Recently , Franke et al. [ 73 ] developed a Bayesian approach to reconstruct a functional human gene network that integrates information on genes and the functional relationships between them , based on data from multiple sources ( the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes , the Biomolecular Interaction Network Database , and so on ) .

One method for translating clinical questions into accurate queries is the PICO method .

In order to explore the plasticity of the Mic-PCC7806 genome further , the number of CDSs with an atypical dinucleotide composition was determined using a one-order Markov chain-based methodology [ 25 ] .

Detection of unknown variants in heterozygous samples depends upon fluorimetric analysis of signal intensity based on the principle that homozygous samples generate twice the amount of signal .

Detection of unknown variants in heterozygous samples depends upon fluorimetric analysis of signal intensity based on the principle that homozygous samples generate twice the amount of signal .

In summary , this analysis confirms the relevance of several aspects of gene expression control and genetic linkage as predictors of synteny conservation in yeast .

Such a technique , which makes use of high-fluence ultrashort pulses of light that can precisely ablate tissue [ 48 ] , has been demonstrated to work with vessels in superficial cortical layers [ 49 ] .

Because stem cells are targeted by the amniotic fluid , in utero delivery method , the specific inhibition of C-MYC in a relative small population of cells ( < 107 ) has a highly significant effect on the histology of the rapidly developing lungs and intestines .

Helden et al. [ 11 ] propose a method for dyad analysis , which exhaustively counts the number of occurrences of each possible pair of patterns in the sequences and then assesses their statistical significance .

Matthew Dimmic ( University of Copenhagen , Denmark ) introduced a Bayesian phylogenetic approach for the detection of coevolving amino-acid residues in protein families .

In this work , we have developed a theoretical approach to estimate allele frequency in pooled DNA samples , based on the physical principles of DNA immobilization and hybridization on solid surface using the Langmuir kinetic model and quantitative analysis of the allelic signals .

To investigate the functional relationship between individual modules and stress response , we used the singular value decomposition method as developed by Alter et al. [ 29 ] and applied by Oldham et al. and Horvath et al. [ 19 , 30 ] .

Operons of mycobacterial genomes were predicted using methods described by Alm et al. [ 38 ] .

One alternative method which has been recommended for country wide prevalence estimates is the Multiple Indicator Method ( MIM ) [ 6 ] .

We describe a new method for identifying outliers when fitting data with nonlinear regression .

We have developed a feature selection method named Supervised Recursive Feature Addition ( SRFA ) .

It uses a simple grid-based method and separates the probe size used to define voids from the probe size used to define channels to the surface .

Jan Vijg ( University of Texas Health Science Center , USA ) illustrated the utility of one such technique - two-dimensional gene scanning ( TDGS ) .

We estimated the recombination rate at each TE insertion site method using a method previously developed for the D. melanogaster genome [ 54 ] .

Based on the ECD coordinates and orientations obtained in the control condition , the method of source space projection was applied to the averaged magnetic field of each condition .

The bicinchoninic acid ( BCA ) assay is a biochemical assay for determining the total level of protein in a solution using colorimetric techniques [ 13 ] .

The increase in MKDT with the amount of insecticide washed out was followed by chemical analysis .

The results of amplification were analyzed by the comparative threshold cycle method , also known as the 2-??Ct method [ 60 ] .

We used the ' fossil cross-validation ' method to measure the agreement between these different calibration points [ 17 ] .

We used the approach of Machado et al. [ 44 ] to distinguish between ongoing gene flow and recent divergence among the Cameroon populations .

WBP is the most commonly used algorithm for reconstruction in ET .

The method is available in the limma software package which is implemented in the R software environment .

Furthermore , each event was checked using a second method in the RDP package , SISCAN ( SSC , [ 85 ] ) .

Thirteen transcripts met this selection criterion ; six were further tested by quantitative RT-PCR analysis of 62 additional samples from this trial and a second SU5416 Phase III trial of similar design .

Therefore , to evaluate the performance of various methods , we used a different method pioneered by Nye and colleagues [ 2 , 25 , 38 ] .

Another alignment algorithm assumes no knowledge of peaks in common [ 20 , 21 ] .

The ' Markov chain discrimination ' ( MCD ) method is our implementation of the ' PFRSampler ' algorithm of Grad et al. [ 16 ] .

Qualitative content analysis elicits contextual meaning in context through the development of emerging themes .

Stimson [ 1 ] originally described his ' hanging arm ' technique for reducing shoulder dislocations .

The first and oldest method , proposed by Lipman and Pearson [ 10 ] and described extensively by Comet et al. [ 11 ] and others [ 12-14 ] , uses Monte Carlo simulations to investigate the significance of a score , s calculated from the alignment of two real sequences a and b .

Among the diverse methods that have been proposed for dealing with multigene data sets is the so-called supermatrix method [ 2 ] .

We propose a method , called MetaViz , which enables to draw a genome-scale metabolic network and that also takes into account its structuration into pathways .

We propose a multiple clustering method to perform the clustering .

A novel approach to increase T cell responses to vaccination is the heterologous prime-boost immunization strategy [ 21 ] .

An Integer Linear Programming method has been proposed in [ 9 ] to reduce the number of probes in the greedy design .

Breiman et al. developed a decision tree ( DT ) model , which uses a variant of the classification and regression tree ( CART ) method .

Using the attached spreadsheets and instructions , a simple post-acquisition method for analysing bivariate flow cytometry data is provided .

The parameter values determined at convergence of the distance function were then seeded into a subsequent quasi-Newton minimization method with box constraints [ 25 ] .

We propose an alternative baseline correction method based on a penalized smoothing model .

The original comparative approach , which is still widely used , is modelling by rigid-body assembly [ 4 ] .

The case-crossover approach consists in a case-control study whereby each person who had an event is matched with him- or herself on a nearby time period in which that individual did not have the event .

For their single-tree approach , Cummings and Myers provided the raw numbers of correctly and incorrectly classified edited and unedited positions , making it possible to calculate specificity and sensitivity in the same way as for PREP-Mt .

Evans blue in the plasma and lung tissue was quantitated by dual-wavelength spectrophotometric analysis at 620 and 740 nm [ 43 ] .

We also proposed a submatrix imputation method to determine whether to use integrative imputation with a given collection of reference datasets .

Our approach provides an easy route to the characterization of UBA domain binding proteins at the level of the whole proteome , its application will unfold the important roles that p62’s UBA domain plays .

The present study proposes an original method to study phosphorylation of proteins in complex , heterogeneous , cell populations such as unseparated PBMCs .

We developed a method to detect sequence motifs corresponding to putative regulatory elements in gene promoters , starting from lists of approximate patterns with occurrences in promoter sequences .

In this paper , we present a computational improvement to a sequence clustering method that we introduced previously to analyze large microbial metagenomic datasets , and that was used in the GOS study [ 9 ] .

The strength of this study was the creation and analysis of a database of a large cohort of women and infants that has previously gone unstudied .

To this end , it would be ideal to search the entire genome to provide a comprehensive analysis of the entire E ( CG ) fly RiBi regulon .

Finally , to visualize the effect of a transition , the time series analysis was carried out using locally weighted regression , applying a decomposition procedure based on loess [ 11 ] .

For the comparison of statistical nucleotide sequence properties of CDSs among viruses and their hosts , we used the method proposed by Sandberg et al. [ 30 ] .

Differentially expressed genes were defined as the extreme outliers in each experiment , using an intensity-dependent strategy modified from the HT-self method [ 133 ] and described in [ 34 ] .

We presented a method for finding relationships between the expression of a gene and that of a known pathway , that are changed across phenotypes .

A simple approach to detect deleted genes is to average probe values across each gene and select genes with unusually low relative hybridization values [ 3 ] .

In order to assess the branching of chætognaths and to stress the usefulness of RP genes for phylogenomics , a RP dataset was assembled using the composite dataset approach [ 18 ] .

HaploStats expands on the likelihood approach to account for ambiguity in case-control studies by using a generalized linear model to test for haplotype association , which allows for adjustment of nongenetic covariates [ 70 ] .

To control for the possibility of spurious associations resulting from population stratification we used the EIGENSTRAT approach of Price et al [ 57 ] .

The only partially pan-specific HLA-DR prediction algorithm publicly available is the TEPITOPE method [ 27 ] .

The Principal Component Analysis ( PCA ) [ 51 , 52 ] technique was used to summarize and discover patterns of inter-correlations among the studied measures .

A second and more powerful method to detect selection was also applied .

The association method tests whether variation in a gene is correlated with an outcome ( e.g. PTSD ) .

Association rules discovery technique ( ARD ) is a data mining method that has been extensively used in many applications to discover associations among subsets of items from large transaction databases .

Automics implements a fuzzy wrapping method [ 28 ] .

Cerebrum samples were also taken for capillary depletion analysis by dextran density centrifugation as previously reported [ 25 ] .

To calculate the relative expression ratio , the 2-??Ct ( RQ , relative quantification ) method implemented in the 7500 Real Time PCR System software [ 49 ] was used .

More recently , other methods have become available , such as the " Assumption-free analysis " [ 36 ] .

We have shown that a multi-way method can be used to analyze differences in the amino acid composition within and between species .

A modified FBA method with minimization of the 1-norm objective function between two optimal flux distributions was used to determine optimal intracellular fluxes based on the EM-constrained metabolic models .

The algorithm first locates local cliques , complete subgraphs in which any two vertices are connected by an edge , for each graph vertex ( a vertex represents a protein ) , and then merges the detected local cliques according to their affinity to form maximal dense neighborhoods .

The reference methods FASTA and BLAST give quite different results : FASTA is a good second and BLAST has scores similar to Paracel and Biofacet .

The algorithm uses Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods to select at random a value from the distribution of the possible values predicted by the missing value model .

Finally , Sandelin and Wasserman [ 15 ] used their own column comparison function ( SW ) within the context of a dynamic programming alignment approach to compare DNA motifs .

Later , a second approach confirmed the deletion based on an interrogation of a dense single nucleotide polymorphism ( SNP ) marker map generated as part of the International HapMap Project [ 17 ] .

A standardized actometric method has been developed for the assessment of neuroleptic-induced akathisia ( NIA ) [ 21 ] .

We grouped studies by whether they reported statistically significant differences at the 5 % level between minority groups and White / White British children because we felt this approach helped to clarify trends in the data .

Linear & LOWESS , which is the default normalization method in the Agilent Feature Extraction Software A.7.5.1 , were applied for normalizing Agilent microarrays .

At present the most popular method of PCR efficiency assessment is based on the slope of standard curve .

However , the disadvantage of this method is that subsequent tumour samples have to be taken at intervals during several days after the administration of BrdUrd [ 7 ] .

The authors devised a fully automated method which showed time savings over manual methods and very high intraclass correlation between the two methods for use with three different radioligands .

Tsai et al. proposed a statistical method to identify cell cycle associated TFs in yeast , which used the Kolmogorov-Smirnov ( KS ) test to examine whether expressions of the target and non-target gene sets of a TF are significantly different [ 8 ] .

The approach we focus on in this paper is a straightforward method developed by Mee and Chua [ 12 ] based on classical t-test statistics and a linear regression model .

We present Searchpattool , a new method to search for and select the most specific ( conservative ) frequent patterns .

We propose a robust semiparametric method in a two-way semi-linear model ( TW-SLM ) for normalization of cDNA microarray data .

Evidence of positive selection was sought using a codon-based approach as implemented in Datamonkey [ 68 ] .

For the SEER dataset , we also fit our model for cancer progression [ 11 ] with the inferential method described in reference 12 .

Besides two global methods ( maximization of the spectrum integral and minimization of the spectrum entropy ) implemented in Automics , we have introduced another easier to implement method for automatic phase correction .

An alternative approach would be to use a different type of BCI which operates on the basis of event-related potentials ( P300 ) and allows for presentation of at least four choices [ 29-31 ] .

Haplotypes with a frequency of at least 0.01 were analyzed using a two-step PCA method [ 13 ] .

They used the least squares method for estimating the normalization curves based on B-splines .

In the section below , we propose a symbolic algorithm which finds all infinitely visited states of the model , and verifies a property only on these states .

Another sequence-based method relies upon the presence / absence of hand-picked " signature sequences " ( conserved insertions / deletions ) [ 7 , 8 ] to infer descent .

Missing values were then replaced by the Expectation-Maximization algorithm or EM algorithm , a maximum likelihood method [ 23 ] .

By varying the search strategy according to a priori defined transition probabilities ( which are dependent on the search progress ) , this approach leads to an algorithm that sacrifices an exact relationship with the canonical ensemble for search efficiency .

Cell wall fragments were purified from a stationary phase culture of L. brevis cells by differential centrifugation of GHCl-treated , mechanically disrupted cells followed by treatments with nucleases and boiling SDS as described in Materials and methods .

A method was developed to isolate dentate gyrus and EC tissue in mouse brain .

Here we introduce a novel and computationally inexpensive visual approach for detecting recombination and inferring breakpoints .

Here we show that the transport lattice approach can be used to model transport of heat by conduction and temperature-dependent blood perfusion .

We used the constant comparative method20 , 21 of qualitative data analysis to develop and implement consistent and comprehensive coding of the open-ended data .

The authors have developed a field sampling method for obtaining high quality DNA from bluegill sunfish ( Lepomis macrochirus ) .

To generate sufficient material for profiling by microarray , a global amplification method was designed to overcome the detrimental effects of high-cycle-number PCR amplification on transcript representation , and to alleviate inefficient amplification by in vitro transcription in the nanogram range ( Figure 2B ) [ 31 ] .

We used a diagnostic method developed by Rocke [ 29 ] to examine the contribution of different factors to measured differences in signal intensity in 6 hybridizations ( 3 replicates with dye-swaps ) comparing Xoo gene expression in PSB vs. XOM2 using the Xo array .

We used commercially available colorimetric method ( Randox Laboratories Ltd , UK ) .

Inferential statistics were calculated by conducting mixed model analysis .

As a prerequisite to carry out proteomic experiments with early zebrafish embryos , we developed a method to efficiently remove the yolk from large batches of embryos .

Our machine learning technique significantly improved the overall recognition and , therefore , the identification of faithful HNF4a targets .

Cross-species chromosome painting [ 25 , 26 ] is a powerful method for investigating the evolution of genome organizations .

Pineal microdialysis offers an exceptional technique for measuring quantitative changes in circadian melatonin secretion [ 14 ] .

DNA-binding proteins that do not function in transcription and lack a native AD ( such as chromatin remodelling , replication and DNA repair proteins , and enzymes involved in transposable elements movement ) can also be found using this approach , as a strong , heterologous AD is added to the prey protein [ 14 , 15 ] .

The reconstructed metabolic network was used in combination with a computational method published by Patil and Nielsen [ 27 ] for analysis of large-scale gene expression data referring to a study on glucose repression in A. nidulans .

Two-step cluster analysis was used as an exploratory tool to determine subpopulations or clusters within the dataset .

In this paper we propose a method to select regulation factors , i.e. to infer the form of TF-TF and TF-RNAP interactions for each target gene .

The paper by Taewon Lee et al. [ 51 ] presents a method to test the significance of expression changes within a group of genes , while considering the correlation structure among genes in each group .

A direct analysis of translational control can be achieved by fractionation of cytoplasmic extracts in sucrose gradients , based on the methods described for polysome analysis [ 21 ] , which involves size separation of large cellular components and monitoring the A254 across the gradient .

We have developed a method of studying the organization of the genome by analysis of the 3D organization of telomeres in the nucleus and their positional changes along the cell cycle , using flow-sorted living cells .

It is based on 3D telomere fluorescence in situ hybridization followed by quantitative analysis that determines the telomeres ' distribution in the nucleus throughout the cell cycle .

Our method takes into account the information presented in multiple templates / alignments at the three-dimensional level by mixing and matching regions between different initial comparative models .

Comparisons of the relative rates of development between fore- and hindlimbs within each species were made using the event-pair method .

To randomly allocate participants to one of the three intervention groups the bias coin method of allocation , using a computer-based random number-producing algorithm , is used .

In addition , a post-transcriptional method of capping was utilized for final modification of the CD40L RNA .

Although our primary analytic methods will focus on the concordant pair design , we will also use a complementary and related approach , the discordant sibling pair method .

We chose Zero Eigenvalue Analysis [ 56 ] - [ 59 ] as a technique for searching parameter values that produce bistability in our model .

In this paper , we propose a method for the normalization procedure based on a non-linear mixed-model , as well as a new approach for determining the statistical significance of altered probes based on linear mixed-model .

We used decision curve analysis [ 35 ] to explore the clinical effects of our models .

In this report we describe the implementation of the beta-binomial method to pool the absolute risks from overdispersed data .

To estimate relative risk ( RR ) of marker ( s ) identified as associated to autism in the present paper , we used a conditional likelihood based method [ 36 ] .

The most prevalent top-down costing approach is the ratio of cost to charge ( RCC ) method .

Temporal autocorrelation was estimated using the first-order autoregressive ( AR1 ) method on suprathreshold voxels .

According to an established morphometric method ( Cook & Wellman , 2004 ; Radley et al. , 2004 ; Brown et al. , 2005 ) , we evaluated dendritic length and the degree of dendritic complexity using the Sholl ( 1953 ) analysis .

First , association analysis was done with correction by genomic control .

Firstly , the genome length was estimated using Method 3 of Chakravarti et al. [ 52 ] , which is a modification of the method-of-moments estimator proposed by Hulbert et al. [ 53 ] .

Lee and colleagues [ 3 ] improved on a previous work [ 21 ] by creating what we refer to in this paper as the Integrated Bayesian ( IB ) method .

In addition , we used the rarefaction method of Petit et al. [ 41 ] to correct for the difference in the number of genes sampled in the two species .

It is called Fast Fourier Transform - Non Linear Least Squares analysis ( FFT-NLLS ) .

As described previously in Steiger et al. ( 2008 ) [ 19 ] , a nonparametric estimation technique applying the concept of ' sample coverage " [ 34 ] was used to estimate the total number of OR genes in each genome investigated .

Chi Squared : Another commonly used feature selection method is Chi-square statistic ( ?2 ) method [ 3 ] .

Linkage analyses were conducted using the variance components analysis method as implemented in the SOLAR program [ 2 ] .

Linkage analysis with microsatellite markers was performed using a nonparametric allele-sharing method [ 6 ] implemented in software ALLEGRO [ 7 ] in each of the 10 replicates and also in the pooled data .

G-banding is often used in clinical settings for the analysis of leukaemia and is best suited to detect large chromosomal aberrations , namely structural or numeric changes [ 16 ] .

One such Fst method is described in [ 2 , 5 ] ( but see also [ 6 ] and [ 7 ] ) and is implemented in the fdist program and can be used for any codominant genetic molecular markers including microsatellites , Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms ( SNPs ) and allozymes .

AsA localisation in the vascular tissue was confirmed by histochemical analysis of slices excised from courgette fruits and celery petiole ( also used for metabolic studies , see below ) using methanolic AgNO3 solutions .

Thirteen candidate genes with cis-QTLs were then selected for further analysis and validation of cis-regulation by measuring allele specific expression ( ASE ) difference [ 56 ] .

The 2-?Ct formula is a modification of the arithmetic comparative 2??Ct method [ 59 ] that was developed to enable normalization to a measurement external to the PCR experiment ( in this case , input cDNA ) , for measuring the expression of ' housekeeping ' genes following different treatments .

In order to determine the adaptive evolution of ESAG sequences , we used the method described in [ 63 ] to characterize the relative rates of non-synonymous and synonymous substitutions within the ESAG6 , ESAG5 and ESAG2 gene families from each of the three trypanosome subspecies .

Here we propose a method , implemented in MXSCARNA , for fast multiple alignments of RNA sequences .

We presented here a new computational method for verification of PPIs that is based on the co-expression of orthologous protein-pairs , and demonstrated its predictive power using PPIs identified in S. cerevisiae .

A method that employs an integrative literature- and data mining approach to select candidate genes was used to select candidate genes for FAS [ 31 ] .

According to the method described by Tiffin et al. [ 31 ] , Dragon Disease Explorer ( DDE ) was used to extract eVOC anatomical terms from the body of literature , where after they were used to extract candidate genes from the Ensembl database .

Similarity relationships between activity patterns were further characterized by factor analysis [ 61 , 62 ] .

ARD is a data mining technique oriented towards finding associations or correlation relationships among items in transaction datasets .

Internal calibration is a widely used method in mass spectrometry .

Although the simple computational approach presented here uses homologous protein coding genes and corresponding NGPs , the method is applicable to a wide range of homologous genome markers .

In this study , we propose and extensively test a new approach for the prediction of helix-lipid interfaces of TM helices from sequence information alone based on a canonical model of the alpha helix .

Here we present the design and implementation of a novel and robust online phenotype discovery method with broad applicability that can be used in diverse experimental contexts , especially high-throughput RNAi screens .

The CCs and the SPs were calculated for each turn of the bootstrapping algorithm .

To control for the possible effect of common phylogenetic descent , we used Felsenstein 's [ 45 ] independent comparison method as implemented in the computer program PDAP ( Vers. 6.0 , module PDTREE ) by Garland et al. [ 46 ] and Garland & Ives [ 47 ] .

To meet the needs of clinical proteomics of comparing large sets of 2D gels , we have developed Sili2Dgel an automatic gel alignment method based on graph theory to find SAP ( without manual adjustment ) after a recursive alignment procedure .

In order to compute the distance between a matrix and a set of indices , our software uses the correlation method described by Tomii and Kanehisa [ 23 ] .

The method of Chaussabel and Sher [ 2 ] can be used to analyze gene lists in order to cluster the genes based on up-to-date literature associations .

The TGDR approach was originally proposed for the linear regression [ 7 ] .

Relative changes in gene expression were calculated using the ??Ct ( threshold cycle ) method .

The nested-PCR fragments from PKD1 cDNA showing no abnormality in size were further screened for mutation by a multiple restriction fragment-single strand conformation polymorphism ( MRF-SSCP ) method .

As an alternative to the existing noise detection and interpolation approaches , we developed a new baseline correction method based on a penalized parametric smoothing model .

The narrative interviews have been interpreted using a phenomenological-hermeneutic approach inspired by Ricoeur [ 11 , 13 ] which has previously been applied in a similar way [ 14 , 15 ] .

Random telephone numbers following the method by Gabler and Häder were used to contact interviewees [ 11 ] .

While this approach has been used successfully [ 6 ] , others have suggested that greater power can be obtained by looking at multiple tags or haplotypes [ 18 , 20 ] .

A patient-centred approach to measuring efficacy in migraine treatment studies involves asking each patient to rate the relative importance of key outcomes , such as speed of pain relief , duration of relief ( i.e. absence of headache recurrence ) , improvement in migraine-associated symptoms ( e.g. nausea , photophobia and phonophobia ) , and risk of side effects .

As we have shown here , applying this algorithm significantly increases genotyping savings , reducing the number of SNPs needed for structure identification almost by six-fold .

With this approach , there is a reduced need to acquire knowledge from the user .

Our group introduced a method for the selective isolation of N-linked glycopeptides , and analysis of the complex peptide mixture representing the now de-glycosylated forms of these peptides by MS / MS [ 17 ] .

A more general method , described in [ 11 ] , used scores based on atom pairs that contact across interfaces combined with iterative partitioning of the graph representing crystal contacts in order to predict complexes .

Due to the spread of residues being more on the diametrical plane of these helices , the axis found using the eigenvector method lay closer to the plane of the diameter instead of being normal to it .

Myoblastic cells capable of spontaneously differentiating and fusing into myotubes were generated by a standard method involving enzymatic digestion of mouse muscle tissue [ 34 ] .

To compare organism amino acid composition , we performed hierarchical clustering using the complete linkage method with distances computed using the Euclidean metric on a dataset that consisted of the mean percent amino acid composition from all predicted open-reading frames for each of the 100 organisms ( Figure 2 ) .

An alternative approach is based on sequencing by base specific cleavage as described in the previous section .

We assessed genome-wide changes in methylation patterns using a unique methylation profiling technique called amplification of intermethylated sites ( AIMS ) .

The TatP method is able to positively classify 91 % of 35 known Tat signal peptides and 84 % of the annotated cleavage sites of these Tat signal peptides were correctly predicted .

To produce an accurate multiple sequence alignment of a domain family for pinpointing insertion events , the structure-based multiple sequence alignment of each family was constructed with a similar method proposed by Casbon and Saqi in building S4 , a database of structure-based sequence alignments of SCOP superfamilies [ 15 ] .

In surveys 1 and 3 , the hundred-bank method [ 11 ] was used to generate telephone numbers .

Clustering was initiated using evenly spaced profiles as algorithm .

Instead of solving the master equation , a widely used method is to carry out Monte Carlo simulations using the Gillespie algorithm [ 14 ] .

BayGenomics [ 3 ] and other members of the International Gene Trap Consortium ( IGTC ) [ 4 , 5 ] typically use 5 ' RACE [ 6 ] , a common method for amplifying sequence from gene insertion events .

A second method to locate novel regulatory regions within the genome is the search for statistically improbable concentration of putative binding sites for a transcription factor or a set of functionally related transcription factors .

In the complete-linkage algorithm , the distance between clusters is defined as the distance between the most distant pair of objects ( i.e. genes ) .

We are able to build a low bias and a low variance predictor using model-averaging method : classifier ensembles .

As a second alternative approach we developed an unsupervised clustering procedure ( see Material and Methods ) .

No interaction terms of independent variables were included in this analysis .

From this combined data set ( 23 samples ) we selected genes classified as Present ( see Methods ) at least once ( 5372 genes ) and then clustered the log-transformed data with average linkage analysis .

Another surgical approach suggested for the management of BAV , associated with a dilated ascending aorta < 5.5 cm , is to carry out AVR with wrapping of the ascending aorta .

Their technique makes use of PCR amplification and a subsequently a linear ligation detection reaction , followed by detection of Cy3-signals on a universal array containing ZIP-codes .

In this study , protein truncation testing ( PTT ) was the methodology used .

We present a novel method for classification of hot and cold ORFs located in hotspots and coldspots respectively in Saccharomyces cerevisiae , using support vector machine ( SVM ) , which relies on codon composition differences .

We used the ecological method of Carstairs and Morris [ 14 ] ( 1990 ) to assign a socio-economic deprivation index to each postal address .

Primer extension analysis is routinely used for expression profiling ( Fig 5 ) ( 1 , 2 ) .

Lloyd Greene ( Columbia University , New York , USA ) has started to address these issues using serial analysis of gene expression ( SAGE ) .

2. Budget driven mechanisms - also described as a pragmatic approach , where service levels and associated workforce levels are determined in the context of defined expenditure targets .

Sequence analysis of the 16S rRNA gene has proved extremely useful for evolutionary studies of prokaryotes [ 10 ] and constitutes the basis for the revised taxonomy of bacteria [ 11 ] .

A similar approach has been used by Blitzblau and coworkers , with similar conclusions [ 56 ] .

A highly effective method , termed suppression subtractive hybridization ( SSH ) , has been applied to generating subtracted cDNA libraries of various systems .

[ 7 , 8 ] This algorithm , which is usually referred to as the Chou-Fasman method , tries to find structures based on the difference in the probability of observing each of the twenty residues in helices , sheets and other structures .

Nevertheless , SAM has one much worse problem : its method for estimating FDR , which we will show does not produce meaningful results .

Correspondence analysis [ 21-23 ] is a powerful method for the multivariate exploration of large-scale data .

Therefore , we apply DFA to the analysis of biological data , which calculates the root-mean-square fluctuation of integrated and detrended time series , permits the detection of intrinsic self-similarity embedded in a non-stationary time series , and also avoids the spurious detection of apparent self-similarity [ 1 ] .

MALDI-TOF MS emerged as one of the most accurate allelotyping techniques when compared with Pyrosequencing ( Biotage , Uppsala , Sweden ) , TaqMan , and SNaPshot ( Applied Biosystems ) [ 37 ] .

We have developed a data mining approach for rapid summarization and visualization of information from clinical trial registries .

A dietary analysis method is described that provides a new tool for establishing relationships between diet and disease .

The 3D aneurysm model was then reconstructed using a CAD program and subsequently imported into a commercial finite element software for mesh generation and stress analysis .

To depict a patient 's skeletal deformity and to perform his / her pathomechanical analysis , the specific bone and joint geometry and dimension can be derived from the generic model using the acquired x-ray or CT data in order to evaluate the biomechanical effects of the pathology and to simulate the anticipated treatment outcome based on various clinical scenarios .

To evaluate the genetic diversity of R. africae , we used the multi-spacer typing ( MST ) method as previously described [ 53 ] .

Population biologists have developed an analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) -style of analysis , which tests whether a collection of communities have similar genetic diversities using mitochondrial DNA sequences and other genetic markers .

A third method , qRT-PCR was used for independent validation of miRNA microarray data for the relative expression of miRNAs in mouse brain [ 39 ] .

For this epidemiological study we have chosen a standardized observation method : the Dysphagia Disorder Survey ( DDS ) / Dysphagia Management Staging Scale ( DMSS ) .

Elements defined by our method can be approximated using vectors , and we have retained longer elements wherever possible .

Using this approach on the yeast proteome , Wolters et al. [ 19 ] identified 5,540 unique peptides from 1,484 proteins and demonstrated a dynamic range of detection of 10,000-fold .

A well known simulation algorithm due to Gillespie [ 13 , 14 ] performs an exact simulation of the Chemical Master Equation for a well mixed system .

It is a new approach to subtype bacteria which involve amplification and fragment size analysis of polymorphic regions of DNA containing variable numbers of tandem repeat sequences .

A computerized method , termed receptive field imaging ( RFI ) , for rapid mapping of multiple receptive fields and their respective sensitivity distributions was used in all experiments .

The proposed method has the practical advantages , over existing approaches , to consider complex heterogeneities in the alternative hypothesis , to take into account prior information ( from an expert judgment or previous studies ) by allowing a semi-supervised mode , and to deal with truncated distributions such as those obtained in Monte-Carlo simulations .

Since the vast majority ( 59 of 62 , 95 % ) of our multiplex families were nuclear families with two or more affected siblings , but no other affected relative pairs , we used the nonparametric MLS method for affected sibling pair data [ 76 ] to compute family-specific lod scores .

To account for the non-independence between these SNPs , a spectral decomposition method was used to obtain the effective number of independent SNPs [ 10 ] .

We propose a new clustering method for analysis of the repeat data captured in suffix trees .

Single-stranded conformational polymorphism ( SSCP ) analysis has been widely applied to detect SNPs , including point mutations in cancer and congenital diseases [ 1-4 ] .

For gene deletions , the Red / RecET recombination method developed by several groups [ 6-11 ] is considered as the most useful now .

Flame photometry is a simple , relatively inexpensive , high sample throughput method used for clinical , biological , and environmental analysis .

Alignment-based analysis of RIP involves the multiple alignment of a repeat family and counting RIP mutations along the alignment for all sequences .

Here genetic algorithm based feature selection is a so called wrapper model , which uses the classifier to measure the discriminative power of feature subsets from the extracted components .

As a first step towards understanding the immune defense reactions of both model organisms we used the suppression subtractive hybridization ( SSH ) technique .

Functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) is a non-invasive technique that assesses cortical activation by measuring changes in the local concentration of paramagnetic deoxyhemoglobin .

Another transfection method , electroporation [ 6 ] , also termed electrotransfer [ 7 ] or electropermeabilization [ 8 ] , is an experimental technique involving the application of brief electric pulses to cells or tissues in order to increase cellular permeability to macromolecules .

To determine whether differences in Hps gene copy number among soybean lines could be detected by other methods , we performed a comparative genomic DNA hybridization to cDNA microarrays .

To address these issues , we assessed expression of Bag-1 on a large cohort of primary breast cancers using tissue microarrays , employing a new method of automated , quantitative analysis .

The filtered data sets for the gene expression experiments were analyzed using rank products analysis [ 37 ] via the RankProd package in R ( version 2.5.0 ) [ 68 ] .

Specifically , we used a new statistical approach to estimate recombination rate variation from patterns of linkage disequilibrium in a sample of 24 western chimpanzees ( Pan troglodytes verus ) .

Comparison of polysomal associated mRNA between developmental stages using microarray analysis provides an approach to a genomic-wide investigation of translation dynamics during development .

We have recently developed an SVD-based phylogenetic method that provides accurate comparisons of a high fraction of sequences within whole genomes without the prior identification of orthologs or homologous sites [ 13 ] .

In the past we reported the development of a method to generate such models called the Stabilized Matrix Method ( SMM ) .

They used a Monte Carlo ( MC ) hill-climbing algorithm to search for the most probable alignments .

We used the Sammon projection method [ 27 ] as the embedding procedure .

In this article , we present an entirely new approach to this problem , namely , the application of Ki-energy , which can be enhanced through the practice of the Nishino Breathing Method ( NBM ) ( 19-21 ) .

Note that caution should be taking when evaluating the predictive performance of the ARB method .

Note that caution should also here be taking when evaluating the predictive performance of the ARB method .

The ASQOL was translated using the dual-panel approach [ 25 ] .

A more commonly used approach would have been to harvest appropriate items from existing questionnaires .

Camera-trapping techniques have been used for identifying individual tigers [ 6 ] .

The second algorithm used was PAM ( Predictive Analysis for Microarrays ) , a shrunken centroid method of classification [ 15 ] .

In this approach , an epitope-labeled polyA binding protein ( FLAG-PAB-1 ) is expressed transgenically under the control of a cell-specific promoter and mRNAs isolated by co-immunoprecipitation with anti-FLAG .

A critical incidents analysis will be conducted to identify key decisions that have influenced the implementation of telehealth and EHR in the Quebec health care system .

Thus , we have developed a reliable heuristic method for determining dependency types automatically given the dependency structure .

Although this method has limited usage , it is a useful addition to the sequencing methods in some cases , e.g. , where cDNA is not readily available .

Employing a similar calculation procedure to the previous method , this one emerged as a consequence of the objections raised by certain researchers about using RRs to estimate smoking attributable mortality from other countries [ 72 ] .

Although there are a range of methods to elicit qualitative information from children , a technique that has become popular is " draw and write " [ 16 ] , which was first described by Williams in 1989 [ 17 ] .

The pathway-guided approach to examine the correspondence between the known metabolic pathway and the organization of metabolic processes learned from expression data is to select sets of genes for pathways and search for significant co-expression within each pathway .

The authors have devised a method for identification of functional RNA structures based on phylogenetic analysis of multiple alignments .

The Spatial filtering methodology employs non-parametric statistical techniques as a tool in exploratory spatial data analysis .

Recently , researchers have developed a method for discovering SNP loci and estimating MAF in a single run , by pooling individuals and digesting with HaeIII , selecting fragments in the 70-200 bp range ( creating a reduced representation library , or RRL ) and resequencing .

However , the successful application of the method is contingent on data quality control ; e.g. , amplification efficiencies .

In order to obtain quantitative , objective measures of expression , we used our newly developed method of automated , quantitative analysis ( AQUA™ ) of tissue microarrays .

An alternative bedside technique has been described in which intragastric pressure measurements are taken from an indwelling nasogastric tube .

In this study , we have developed a tandem machine learning approach for the identification of regulatory target genes based on these parameters and on the corresponding binding site information contents that measure the affinities of the factor for these cognate elements .

Selective genotyping can be an efficient method , providing good power as compared to complete genotyping at a reduced cost [ 20 ] .

The first of these , the finite-difference time-domain ( FDTD ) method , is based on the Yee algorithm [ 12 ] and uses finite difference approximations of the time and space derivatives of Maxwell 's curl equations to create a discrete three-dimensional representation of the electric and magnetic fields .

A useful way of discovering SNP 's in non-model organisms is by designing primers in exons in a species with considerable genomic data to amplify the corresponding exon ( or intron ) in a species with limited genetic data ( i.e. the EPIC approach , [ 20 , 21 ] ) .

Here , we focus on spacer oligonucleotide typing ( spoligotyping ) , a technique that exploits polymorphism in the direct repeat ( DR ) region of M. tuberculosis [ 8 , 9 ] .

In this issue , Nancy Moran , Emmanuelle Lerat , and Vincent Daubin propose an approach that solves this problem by identifying a set of genes that serve as reliable indicators of the vertical transfer of bacterial cell lineages .

Common to all techniques , which are applied in the above cited literature to analyze synchronization , is that they rely on simultaneous measurements of the electrocardiogram ( ECG ) and respiratory flow .

For example , consider the evaluation method of generating synthetic data using computer simulation techniques [ 6-9 ] .

In one approach , MAPCeL ( micro-array profiling of C. elegans cells ) , green-fluorescent protein ( GFP ) labeled cells are isolated by fluorescence activated cell sorting ( FACS ) from preparations of dissociated embryonic cells [ 5 ] .

One productive approach to the analysis and prediction of functional subtypes identified key sites in multiple protein sequence alignments that specify the different functional subtypes .

We describe a tissue culture method combined with a novel read out system for both tissue cultivation and rapid assessment of drug efficacy together with the simultaneous identification of different cell types within non-fixed breast cancer tissues .

Body composition was assessed by impedance using a standard bioimpedance technique ( Bodystat 1500 ; Bodystat , Isle of Man , UK ) according to the manufacturer’s instructions .

First , a canonical correspondence analysis ( CCA ) was performed using CANOCO 4.0 [ 54 ] .

In order to detect such long-range periodic patterns in inherently noisy chromosome position-dependent data , wavelet analysis has been used in several studies [ 13 , 15 ] ( Figure 1 ) .

Because transcription factors tend to bind short and degenerate sequences , the PWM-based approach provides better definition of transcription factor binding properties based on binding affinity .

The traditional approach for identification of relevant genes in susceptibility loci is a combination of positional cloning and linkage analysis [ 11 , 12 ] .

The YIU method allows rapid conversion of cDNAs into shRNA templates .

Viestenz et al. [ 11 , 12 ] and Quentin et al. [ 13 ] used the method of simultaneous slide projection to evaluate the rotation of the toric lens .

To remedy this problem , Zhang et al. [ 23 ] developed a novel coalescence-guided hierarchical Bayesian method wich uses a hierarchical structure to directly model the coalescence relationship among modern-day haplotypes .

The minimum covariance determinant ( MCD ) regression method [ 29 ] is a well performing robust regression method that can also handle cases where both X and y are multivariate .

The super-syringe technique was largely utilized during the 1980s to describe the different stages of ARDS [ 1 , 2 ] .

We introduce a novel multi-chip normalization method for Affymetrix-based aCGH data .

High accuracy predictions of essential genes have also been made using flux balance analysis [ 7 ] .

As an alternative to the standard curve method , relative quantification can also be achieved with the method named " comparative CT " or " delta-deltaCT " [ 8 ] .

To assess the statistical significance of the method of finding segment boundaries , a shuffled genome was constructed by dividing the mouse genome into 100 base pieces ; the pieces for each chromosome were then shuffled separately .

Second , probabilistic divergence measures ( PDM , [ 53 ] ) were used to compare different tree topologies in adjacent sequence windows using a Markov chain Monte-Carlo approach to estimate marginal posterior probabilities for each topology .

To perform a comparative SAGE analysis of normal , preinvasive and invasive lesions , we used a modified t test that we have recently developed [ 8 ] .

In this paper , we propose the AT excursion method , which is a score-based approach , to quantify local AT abundance in genomic sequences and use the identified high scoring segments for predicting replication origins .

The strength of our system is a multiplex anti-CK / anti-EpCAM-enrichment protocol combined with a fully automated image analysis platform using both fluorescent and brightfield detection .

Recently , we described a new high throughput AFLP ( htAFLP ) approach for the identification of DNA polymorphism in Mycobacterium tuberculosis [ 26 ] .

We introduce a simple algorithm , using the charge / electrostatic potential neighbourhood , to recover the signal for non-phosphorylated structures .

Application of this method to two publicly-available cancer data sets yields suggestive and promising results .

The approach has the high specificity and high resolution of previous in situ methods while allowing for the analysis of several genes expression patterns in parallel .

An initial guess for these 20 parameters was obtained from Mobs and then the values that maximized the total likelihood were obtained using the simplex algorithm .

The algorithm we used to estimate the proportion of women who were unreachable is simple and is based on reasonable , although not perfect assumptions .

The 4C model ( though not a true gold standard ) is often used as a criterion method to compare the accuracy of other methods for assessing body fat .

Several methods for assessing promoter methylation status have been reported [ 9-16 ] , but the most widely used is Methylation-Specific PCR ( MSP ) analysis after bisulphite treatment [ 17 ] .

Because the PCA analysis identified no significant difference between expression profiles from patients with early and late OA , we pooled data from these two cohorts and performed supervised Wilcoxon 's ranksum tests to identify unique proteins with differential abundance between the healthy and OA groups .

We therefore made an analysis in 5 kbp sliding windows along the multiple genome alignment to identify the most phylogenetically incongruent regions ( see Material and Methods ) .

We use the detection algorithm based on simulated annealing , which aims at maximizing the modularity of a partition , and which finds the number of modules automatically [ 8 ] .

Mutation Miner approaches the problem differently .

A useful method of integrated analysis of expression data within an interaction network is the ActivePaths algorithm [ 5 ] .

The entire core and complete kinomes were clustered using the probabilistic method described by Samanta and Liang [ 28 ] .

In addition to this indirect method , we used a direct assay which measures the ability of peptides to promote the entry of a hydrophobic fluorescent probe ( 1-N-phenylnaphthylamine ; NPN ) into the cell membrane .

Our theoretical approach suggests a method for understanding the combined effect of changes in the expression of multiple genes on the activity of metabolic pathways , and consequently on the adaptation of cellular metabolism to heat shock .

Excluding non-core ß-sheet residues from the ß-sheet fraction makes sense in view of the large variety of dihedral angles assigned as ß-sheet by the DSSP algorithm .

The Delphi method facilitates communication between and among a panel of experts , so that the process is effective and the group as a whole can deal with a complex problem [ 26 ] .

Due to the methodology of the GeneFishing technique , we mainly amplify regions of the mRNA close to the polyA tail and the 3 ' UTR region of the transcript , which is not the most informative for identification of the gene , as it contains non-coding sequence .

For instance , time-series expression data were used to determine which genes were active at certain phases and then combined with ChIP-chip data using a trace-back algorithm to identify active TFs at these phases ( Luscombe et al , 2004 ) .

In this work , we present a new microarray-based high-throughput screening approach to identifying candidate marker mRNAs for early detection of epithelial cells diluted in peripheral blood cells .

Concurrent with the textbook-based identification of terms was the continuing effort to expand the vocabulary using a research data-driven approach .

In this work , we present a new microarray-based high-throughput screening method to identifying candidate marker mRNAs for the early detection of epithelial cells diluted in peripheral blood cells .

For the evaluation of gene-gene and gene-environment interactions , we used the MDR method [ 23-26 ] .

Since baseline substraction is straightforward , we mainly focus on the baseline estimation procedure in different methods .

Here we present a novel approach to generate quasi-median networks for a set of aligned DNA sequences .

Other approaches have been developed for the analysis of MLST data and a method based on minimum-spanning trees is incorporated into the Bionumerics™ package [ 25 ] .

The enzyme activity data obtained from the stopped-flow analysis are shown in Table 1 .

BRNI is based on our method to infer biochemical models of single gene regulation [ 15 ] .

Meiotic outcome groupMaternal age groupNumber of observed eventsFrequency of observed number recombinantsFrequency of the number inferred exchanges01=201=2MIYoung ( < 29 yrs ) 1750.700.200.100.470.320.21Mid ( 29-34 yrs ) 1970.560.350.100.180.640.19Old ( > 34 yrs ) 2430.640.270.090.270.490.24MIIYoung ( < 29 yrs ) 58-0.660.34-0.220.78Mid ( 29-34 yrs ) 69-0.780.22-0.510.49Old ( > 34 yrs ) 126-0.810.19-0.570.44EuploidAll Ages1520.520.390.090.200.500.30To obtain a better representation of the pattern of exchange at the four strand stage of meiosis and to be able to compare patterns among meiotic outcome groups ( i.e. , MI , “MII” and euploid ) , we performed a tetrad analysis .

Here we have developed a new method of estimating the error rate of curated sequence annotations , and applied this to the Gene Ontology ( GO ) sequence database ( GOSeqLite ) .

Among these approaches , the Affymetrix GeneChip® Mapping Assay [ 18 , 19 ] is increasingly used for detecting CNVs in human DNA .

The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays are the most commonly used antibody detection method .

Alonzo and Pepe recently described another method for computing the AUC of a continuous screening test in the presence of verification bias .

Genotyping for the single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) at aa19 , aa50 , aa62 , aa133 , and aa219 in SP-A1 and aa9 , aa91 , aa223 in SP-A2 were done using a sequence specific primer-PCR methodology described by Pantelidis et al. [ 25 ] .

To this end , a conservative analysis using multiple random validation [ 34 ] is proposed .

Bulk-segregant analysis was performed using pooled DNA from siblings and mutants .

Cleavage specific to the elongation complex has been quantified using ternary complex analysis .

Recently , a new approach for identifying substrates of protein kinases has applied the miniaturized format of functional protein arrays to characterize phosphorylation for thousands of candidate protein substrates in a single experiment .

We have thus shown that cell ELISA is a sensitive technique for the differential diagnosis of TBM from PTPM .

At baseline the PulseCO was calibrated using the lithium dilution technique as previously described and according to manufacturer 's instructions [ 8 ] .

The original Haseman-Elston method [ 6 ] is a general model-free method for testing linkage between candidate markers and quantitative trait loci on a sample of sib-pairs .

Pulse wave analysis ( PWA ) will be used to derive a central ( ascending aortic ) pressure waveform via applanation tonometry at the radial artery [ 38 ] to determine central pulse pressure and AIx as a composite measure of arterial stiffness .

Pulse wave analysis ( PWA ) will be used to derive a central ( ascending aortic ) pressure waveform via applanation tonometry .

The method of canonical discriminant analysis was applied for the study of the relationships between the different techniques .

Bladder and tumor physiology was followed in a time course study using this method at each time point , for each animal .

In contrast , for S SNPs , a gene-based analysis simply considers the S cumulative sums of rank-ordered single SNP association chi-squared statistics ( S1 , S1+S2 , S1+S2+S3 , ... ) and evaluates significance via permutation , which also corrects for having tested S different ranked sum scores .

We have developed an unsupervised approach to identifying coordinately acting biomarkers using heterogeneous microarray data , which can be generalized to any set of gene expression data regardless of the platform on which they were generated .

We applied the two-class unpaired method from the SAM package to test the null hypothesis of no effect of viral compared to control injection across 18 replicates ( 3 biological × 2 technical dye-swap × 3 within slide as each gene is present in triplicate ) .

Using SC17 ( 0 ) as the initial recipient for ? Red-promoting modifications it is subsequently possible to transfer the marked mutation to other P. ananatis strains of interest using the method of electro-transformation with chromosomal DNA .

We then estimate this integral using a method we developed called the Uniform Distance Method ( UDM ) .

Here a culture-independent , environmental PCR survey approach was used to examine Cyanidiales species composition in nature .

BIG-PI is the first publicly released method for GPI-anchor prediction , and the predictions are made by four kingdom-specific predictors [ 10 , 12 , 13 ] .

The MRF-SSCP technique has been developed and preliminarily used for screening other types of mutations .

Before analysis , each sample was prepared by oxidative digestion in a mixed solution with concentrated nitric and perchloric acids , using an automated system with a Tecator 1012 Controller and 1016 Digester heating unit .

We have successfully used this method to produce multiple mutants with no antibiotic gene on the genome or extra sequence except those nucleotides required for expression of epitope regions .

The approach is based on mismatch-specific selective reactions of mismatched DNA cleavage by endonuclease and separation of the PCR product fragments by capillary electrophoresis .

On the basis of this classification a covariant discriminant algorithm was proposed [ 8 ] to predict subcellular location of a query protein .

We apply this method to various networks such as the E. coli transcriptional regulatory network , the macaque cortex network , a foodweb network and the Buchnera aphidicola metabolic network .

The SNaPshot technique is particularly well-suited for the screening of mitochondrial DNA variants for the following reasons : i ) the short intron-less mitochondrial genes means that the entire gene can be PCR-amplified and screened in a single PCR fragment and ii ) homoplasmic mutations ( such as the ones investigated in the present study ) are represented as a single peak at each locus which simplifies the analysis .

So while this approach is conceptually and numerically simple , it does not provide dimension reduction , does not take into account the continuity of the underlying trajectories , and is subject to measurement errors in the predictors .

While we used AceView for redefining probe sets , the method of regrouping probes can be applied using any public or " in-house " database , and the guidelines provided here for creating a viable " probe set " should be generally applicable .

In our method , the inversion could be detected by including the reverse complementary sequences in the sequence set .

Focus groups are a data collection method appropriate for research that seeks to explore a range of people 's opinions , experiences and feelings , in a group , without any goal of conformity or consensus [ 28 ] .

A second drawback is that the need for hand-eye-mouse coordination can introduce some additional variability , although this was relatively mild with the present data as both the line and outline method had similar coefficients of variation and within-sample variability .

When using numerous species , their phylogenetic proximities can be analyzed using their signatures by conventional statistical methods and the set of species split into subgroups .

In order to estimate the prevalence of EIB in Tunisian athletes we chose to use a method for evaluating the respiratory condition of athletes , the most common is the change in FEV1 before and after exercise .

In this paper we describe a fieldable genotyping method for B. anthracis and Y. pestis .

SNPs and INDELS discovered by this approach have been publicly deposited in NCBI 's SNP repository dbSNP .

A probe level model for analysis of GeneChip gene expression data is presented which identified more than 10,000 single-feature polymorphisms between two barley genotypes , with a high sensitivity .

In this paper , we describe a rigorous statistical approach for detecting differentially abundant features ( taxa , pathways , subsystems , etc. ) between clinical metagenomic datasets .

There are no other false positives by either method .

Since this method does not need pre-defined target gene sets , it requires no threshold selection for binding affinity scores or gene expression changes .

In the second method - modified GEE ( 2 ) , the increased variability of the sandwich standard error estimator was accounted for by building the confidence interval for the treatment effect based on the quantiles from the t-distribution with 2 ( J-1 ) degree of freedom .

Seven mutations were determined by allele-specific polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) based on the method of Wilson et al. [ 17 ] .

DNA is detected and analysed using readily available camera equipment and image analysis software .

We performed a bivariate analysis of cholesterol and triglyceride levels on sib-pair data from the Framingham Heart Study using a method recently developed by Wang [ 1 ] .

We developed a new method ( GRAPPA-IR ) to handle inverted repeats .

The PBC analysis pipeline offers an efficient and objective method for classifying large amount of miRNAs .

Recently , an automated method for the analysis and prediction of buried and exposed residues of TM proteins with an impressive prediction accuracy of 80 % was developed by Beuming and Weinstein [ 23 ] .

In addition , we propose a method called shared summation ( SHS ) , by which the probabilistic output of a multi-class group is shared equally by each class ( Figure 4b ) .

In the following , we present a sensitive and quantitative method for the flow cytometric detection of influenza A virus infection with monoclonal antibodies in adherent MDCK cells fixed in ethanol and PFA / ethanol .

A new method , developed in our institute , is introduced in order to detect temperature in human pulmonary epithelium , in vivo .

An automatic tracking algorithm was developed to reduce human error .

We propose an online phenotype discovery method for high-throughput RNAi screen , which can be used in the course of many image-based screens .

In real-time PCR data analysis , the cycle threshold ( CT ) method is currently the gold standard .

We propose a new method that improves the accuracy of the predictions achieved by the phylogenetic approaches tested here ( see Methods ) or the five methods based on network analyses .

A second method removes all subjectivity from the process and gives an estimate based on the data set in its entirety rather than on a day by day evaluation of the difference between two peaks .

We have presented a method to estimate the score distributions of RNA helices or single strand profiles and of their combinations into larger motifs .

We have presented an algorithm to align multiple sequences and reconstruct the phylogenies that minimize the alignment score .

SNP genotyping was performed by the Taqman method ( Applied Biosystems , Foster City , CA ) .

We have recently reported on an alternative transcriptome amplification method that minimises differences in transcript length in the amplification step [ 3 , 4 ] .

Here we propose and describe a new strategy and method used to isolate SINEs and LINEs rapidly , in which library construction and screening is completely eliminated .

Recently , novel method termed as array-based comparative genomic hybridization ( array CGH ) has been described , which enables high throughput quantitative measurement of high-resolution DNA copy number changes throughout the genome [ 8 ] .

The analysis was carried out with Diverge ( version 2.0 ) [ 28 ] .

To estimate the level of functional divergence and predict important amino acid residues for these functional differences among OPR subfamilies , the coefficients of type-I and type-II functional divergence ( ?I and ?II ) between any two clusters were calculated for each position in the alignment ( Additional file 3 ) , using the method suggested by Gu et. al. ( 1999 , 2006 ) [ 38 , 77 ] , as implemented in the DIVERGE v2.0 package [ 36 ] .

To compare with existing methods , prediction are also done with the PSIPRED program ( version 2.45 ) [ 4 ] , using the single-sequence mode .

We have presented a new approach to non-parametric inference of demographic history from an inferred genealogy .

Recently Bockhorst et al. [ 26 ] proposed a very accurate method for predicting operons , promoters and terminators in E. coli .

The traditional method for functional analysis of antigen-specific CTLs is the cytotoxic T cell lysis assay .

A further reduction in total within-group variance can be achieved by using the ratio method described in this report .

Variance-component univariate linkage analysis implemented in SOLAR ( 1.7.4 ) [ 8 ] was used for heritability estimation , and two-point and multipoint linkage analyses .

Fibrillation intervals have been used as an index of local refractoriness and shown to correlate well with the local atrial and ventricular refractoriness determined using extrastimulus technique in animal [ 4 , 6-8 ] and human subjects [ 5 , 9 ] in serval previous studies .

In this article we present a computational method for annotating gene expression pattern images .

Two dimensional strain ( 2D strain ) , the most recent technique , has lately been proposed for obtaining velocities and deformation of the myocardial walls as an alternative to Doppler sampling .

Therefore , a complementary approach which monitors influx only was pursued , by using the Mn2+-quenching technique in single intact amoebae .

In view of the aforementioned lack of annotation of the small ORFs , and to improve localization techniques for TA systems , we developed a simple method for identifying all potential TA systems in a given bacterial genome : Rapid Automated Scan for Toxins and Antitoxins in Bacteria ( RASTA-Bacteria ) .

To discard tags that are likely to have been generated by sequencing errors , we implemented Colinge and Feger 's method [ 22 ] .

To gain further insight into the transcriptional response to the deletion of SDH3 , we integrated the transcriptome data with the genome-scale yeast metabolic model [ 16 ] and thus identified so-called reporter metabolites [ 14 ] ( methods ) .

To address this , we utilized a method for expanding the set of terms associated with a given GO node .

Recently , we have introduced a new automated method for the estimation of the plasma total antioxidant capacity [ 33 ] .

For that purpose , the relative quantification of reverse transcription-PCR ( RT-PCR ) data is the method of choice to ascertain gene expression results [ 1 , 2 ] .

We then combined the results of the 10 primary genome scans using Fisher 's method of combining p-values [ 4 ] .

To facilitate automated SNP discovery or typing , the SearchSnps method will generate output as shown in Figure 2 .

Glucose transport was measured in isolated adipocytes by determining the uptake of D- [ 14C ( U ) ] -glucose ( NEN Life Sciences ) at trace concentrations using our modification of the method of Kashiwagi et al. [ 50 ] .

We present a novel statistical approach that allows regulatory DNA to be distinguished from coding and non-coding non-regulatory regions according to its " fluffiness " values .

To identify groups of cytokines that allow the distinction of potential outcomes in patients with early arthritis , we used a classification algorithm termed Random Forest [ 17 , 18 ] .

To estimate the deletion rate , we used the maximum likelihood approach proposed by Petrov et al. [ 41 , 42 ] .

Perez-Castellano et al reported a new mapping approach to help localize the atrial insertion of AcP by reproducing the atrial activation sequence during orthodromic tachycardia through atrial pacing at the mapping catheter [ 12 ] .

We have developed an innovative technique that allows us to monitor globally the in vivo thiol status of cellular proteins upon variations in the redox homeostasis of the cells .

A direct significance analysis to select genes from microarray data ( SAM ) was proposed by Tusher et al. [ 17 ] .

In a previous work , MVW-PCA was introduced as a new approach of application of PCA on dynamic PET images using various compounds , among others [ 11C ] -PIB [ 5 ] .

In this study , Pyrosequencing was adapted to measure the frequency of alleles in an erythrocytic vaccine candidate antigen MSP-119 and combined with a haplotype-estimating algorithm to estimate the frequency of MSP-119haplotypes in infected individuals .

We first performed the comparison with the individual method used in ProFunc that most closely matches our own , PEAS .

For the reasons briefly mentioned in the Introduction , the Item Response Theory [ 8 ] was our primary model for analysis of the questionnaire resulting from the interviews with stoma patients .

The final method for indel coding is also described by Simmons and Ochoterena [ 16 ] .

Besides the traditional analysis methods , the motif discovery algorithms can also be used to find possible TFBSs in the promoter regions of homologous gene sets .

After comparison , we adopted the method from Guimerà and Amaral [ 21 , 22 ] to identify modules in metabolic networks in chloroplasts and photosynthetic bacteria ( see detailed description in the " Methods " section ) .

The computer simulation technique has been developed by Smith [ 8 ] in late 80s at Stanford University .

As most of the existing domain-based methods consider only single-domain pairs and assume independence between domain-domain interactions , Xue-Wen et al. [ 18 ] introduced a domain-based random forest of decision trees to infer protein interactions .

We have introduced an improved method of searching for protein structures with similar folds using tableaux , incorporating constraints on the distances between SSEs to improve accuracy .

The data support and validate this rapid , simple , noninvasive method , which includes video image analysis and frequency analysis .

To estimate the CIs for the mean difference between the groups , we used parameter estimates of repeated measures multilevel analysis in MLwiN [ 28 ] .

The principle of this method is to calculate the second derivative of the likelihood , and to select the number of classes for which this derivative exceeds a threshold , which is set to 0.5 in practice .

The computational expression analysis methods developed here are not limited to the identification of IL-8 related genes , but can also be applied to many other proteins of interest .

The most commonly used approach is implementation of the expectation-maximization ( EM ) algorithm [ 10 ] .

Consequently , the user may choose to use another allocation algorithm such as the reciprocal allocation method .

Prediction of transcription factor binding sites by searching for gene sequences conserved across species , an approach called phylogenetic footprinting [ 31 ] , has been developed recently as a tool for analysis of genomes [ 32 ] .

Associated with PCA , this method allowed successful discrimination of urine samples spiked or not with low fentomole / µl synthetic peptides used as pseudo-biomarkers .

New techniques , such as the polymerase chain reaction amplification of bisulfite-modified DNA , have enabled the study of patterns of DNA methylation .

Handling of the mastectomy specimens was based on the correlated radiographic and pathologic technique developed by Egan , which has been routinely performed in our pathology department for many years [ 17 ] .

These data were corrected for under-registration through a method developed by the Centro Latino-Americano de Demografia ( CELADE ) and adopted by PAHO [ 7 ] .

The proposed method is used along with the Best-Fit Extension problem .

We developed a new analytical method called invariant analysis to define the significant copy number changes .

The basic experiential method invites students to engage in an experience , to create some learning from it , and then through a process of structured reflection to identify what it is that each has learned and to apply this new knowledge thereby expanding the repertoire of possible solutions .

To the summary statistic approaches we added the coalescence-based maximum-likelihood method of Galtier et al. [ 16 ] .

A fast structural comparison algorithm allows the rapid scanning of one or more protein structures with the library looking for local structural similarities .

The most common technique used for survival analysis is IHC , which qualitatively determines protein levels based on intensity of immunostaining .

We have previously reported our experience with a new , simple and practical , yet standardized , tissue fixation and processing method that preserves histomorphology and protects macromolecules at ambient temperature [ 4-9 ] .

The method does not require a linear assumption , and has the desirable property of scale-invariance with respect to TF-specific binding affinity .

Here , I present a method for computing the power of a genome-wide association study when a genetic model and sample size are specified and LD information is available for the population being studied .

In Table 1 we have also added an additional approach , denoted by l2 , the equivalent to the l1-regularization but using an l2-penalty instead of an l1-penalty on the coefficients of the log-linear model .

Flow cytometry is a fluorescence-based technique commonly used to evaluate expression of cell surface and intracellular proteins .

A method of choice is now emerging for the analysis of quantitative traits arising from selected sib pairs .

Allele specific oligonucleotide ( ASO ) PCR is a very specific and sensitive technique for detection of known mutations ( 29 ) .

Microvascular blood flow was measured using laser Doppler velocimetry ( Transonic® Laser Doppler Monitor , BLF21 , Maastricht , the Netherlands , and Peri Flux System 5000 , Perimed , Stockholm , Sweden ) , employing atechnique that quantifies the sum of the motion of the red blood cells in a specific volume .

In contrast to chromatin purified in sucrose-containing buffers , the minichromosomes obtained with this method are suitable for transcriptional analysis .

The SpectroTYPER™ software gathers the time-of-flight information and applies algorithms to provide accurate , automated genotype calling .

Previous approaches for summarizing Dirichlet Process mixture model components have used pairwise co-clustering probabilities as a similarity measure for input into an agglomerative clustering algorithm [ 14 ] .

Our method for modeling dependencies is simply an extension of position independencies methods .

In this paper , we analyse the capability of wavelet power spectrum in feature selection and we propose a method of feature selection based on Haar wavelet power spectrum .

The MCL algorithm ( inflation parameter 2.0 ) was applied to find clusters in this graph .

We conducted a case study based on the " success case method " described by Brinkerhoff [ 16 ] .

Biophysically-motivated elementary free-energies can be learned using SVM techniques to construct an energy cost function whose predictive performance rivals state-of-the-art .

Here we report a highly accurate technique for inferring the major modes of structural correlation in macromolecules using likelihood-based statistical analysis of sets of structures .

Early attempts to value mortality risk reductions applied the human capital approach , which estimates the " value of life " as lost productivity .

Overall the in silico method for identifying genes in a specific genomic region worked well here , yielding a reasonable gene density of one per 95 kb .

Indeed , the SAGE method can be performed to accurately measure the abundance of both known and novel transcripts on global scale [ 13 ] .

To develop a reproducible and accurate method of gene expression analysis on synovial biopsies , we evaluated and validated real-time quantitative PCR ( Q-PCR ) on very small synovial tissue samples using a novel cell-based standard curve technique .

Here we show that a transport lattice approach [ 9 ] can solve bioheat problems .

Efron 's local false discovery rate method [ 7 ] was applied to the FBAT results to identify significant markers after multiple comparison adjustments .

Alternatively , a non-phylogenetic method , applying dynamic programming that minimizes the mutation and recombination cost between sequences was used .

The authors introduce a framework that uses a technique called kernel density estimation to find the regions in the genome that show a significant increase in insertion density .

cDNA microarray studies using T7 amplified RNA have shown that the technique yields reproducible results that correlate with the results obtained from using total RNA [ 2 , 9 , 11 ] .

In order to specify the number of rules in fuzzy system we utilize subtractive clustering approach .

In this paper we present several applications of extensions of the method of Molitor et al. [ 1 ] .

Recently a new method for pooling sensitivity and specificity has been developed .

The SBL algorithm [ 18 , 19 , 24 ] is a general Bayesian framework to obtain sparse solutions utilizing linear models .

So far , apart from exact algorithms evaluating the volume of the space of possible solutions , that are unsuitable for analyzing metabolic networks larger than some dozens metabolites [ 8 , 9 ] , the best technique allowing for such a characterization is based on Monte Carlo sampling ( MCS ) of the steady-state flux space [ 10-14 ] .

Here , the neural gas clustering method is used with Pearson correlation similarity measure for computing cluster centroids .

Shiraishi et al. [ 25 ] published a variable-order , variable-step Taylor-series method that can be used as an ODE solver providing a highly accurate calculation to compute dynamic sensitivities .

Elston et al. [ 4 ] developed an algorithm that is efficient on pedigrees that have little inbreeding .

The test statistic of Xu et al. 's method is the weighted sum of the single marker test statistics and the weights were calculated by using the information of parental phenotypes .

For each interaction , a corresponding method is generated .

MLST analysis on Leptospira strains showed that the similar serovars and the serogroups of different species are not clustered together ( Figure 1 ) .

Genomic DNA gel blot analysis with probes derived from different ?SRKs was used to assess the composition of the S locus in various accessions of A. thaliana .

The human NAT2*4 , NAT2*5A , NAT2*5B , NAT2*5C , NAT2*6A and NAT2*7B alleles were identified by genotyping using the PCR-RFLP method of Hickman & Sim [ 30 ] , and Hickman et al. [ 31 ] .

Disadvantages include : significant effort is required to optimize the technique ( duration and strength of pulse ) for each cell type , a relatively high degree of cell death is observed , and transfection efficiency is often low in comparison to other methods .

Accordingly , we developed a non-invasive technique for obtaining ECGs in conscious mice by placing the animal on a platform embedded with paw-sized ECG electrodes connected to an amplifier .

In this study , a direct method of lithium determination in erythrocytes was used .

Second , the objective functions of clustering algorithms have been used to evaluate the algorithms .

Using a force-directed optimisation method , we were able to produce tree layouts in three-dimensions upon which the protein interactions could be projected .

Accurate interpretation of data obtained by unsupervised analysis of large scale expression profiling studies is currently frequently performed by visually combining sample-gene heatmaps and sample characteristics .

In this approach the metabolic component of an acid-base disorder is quantified as the change in plasma bicarbonate concentration ( ? [ HCO3- ] ) [ 18 ] , which by Eqn 3 is also equal to ?SID .

To classify the exposure all measured values that were below this limit were replaced previous to the analysis by half of the limit ( 0.025 V / m ) .

We describe here , in detail , a new analysis method that has been used to analyze the transcriptome in yeast [ 7 ] .

We evaluate the performances of a footprint discovery approach based on the detection of over-represented spaced motifs .

PCR with product differentiation by melting curve analysis offers a cost-effective means of qualitative analysis for the presence of F. culmorum and F. graminearum in plant material .

A more elaborate method built on PCA is explored in this study to utilize the directional information contained in the eigenvector corresponding to ?1 , named here as the PCC analysis as described in Section Methods .

By using the case of an abrupt and sustained reduction in the availability of heroin in Australia in January 2001 , we have shown that problems associated with applying standard ITSA can be overcome by : defining and dating such an event in ways that are not influenced by the outcomes to be modeled ; identifying appropriate indicator series to model ; fitting ITSA models to the data in ways that minimize the effects of researcher bias by using a prescriptive method to select functional depictions of the event and subsequently modifying these using appropriate transfer functions ; and evaluating plausible rival explanations of any changes observed in the time series so that these changes could be more confidently attributed to the unplanned event .

In this method , the first step is to apply a clinical sample to standard culture media to see what grows [ 19 ] .

Study treatment allocation ( dexamethasone respectively placebo ) will be done in a ratio 1 : 1 by the method of minimization ( Pocock and Simon 1975 ) considering two factors , study center and Glasgow coma scale ( dichotomized : = 8 , > 8 ) .

An alternative method is to use distance-based approaches , where distances are those measured between the centroids ( or the intensity gravity centres ) of the nuclear compartments of interest .

We demonstrated a pretreatment method to collect well-characterized , viable , single cells without using fluorescent labels and without significant damage to the cells .

To address common difficulties associated with the AI analysis of primary tumors , we have recently developed a technique called ' counting alleles ' that is specifically designed for the analysis of archived clinical specimens [ 6 , 7 ] .

After the filtering step , the genes left for the analysis were 9593 , of which 1261 ( 13.2 % ) had between 1 and 4 missing values .

The easiest way to obtain a complete inspiratory V-P curve during one slow insufflation and without disconnecting the patient from the ventilator is to use the low flow inflation ( LFI ) technique .

We confirm the utility of a semi-automated method of RNA extraction ( nucleic acid preparation by the ABI PRISM 6100 system , followed by a precipitation step ) which allowed us to obtain a standard amount of total RNA from 1 mL of each peripheral blood sample , suitable for RT-PCR [ 30 ] .

A graphical technique based on the spread-versus-level plot may also be used to empirically estimate p [ 9 ] .

The applied serologic technique lies on the aptitude of the antibodies to recognize allotropic determinants of HLA molecules on cellular surface [ 27 ] .

In summary , we examined the applicability of using Zipf 's law as the basis for a novel normalization technique , which is applicable to both one channel microarray data and two channel microarrays .

Based on the above results , the line method was the best way to select the structure or region of interest as it was not subject to floor-effects , had a low coefficient of variation , and low within-sample variability .

Hunink et al have reported a method of correcting for verification bias when some participants receive the gold standard test based on variables other than the diagnostic test result , for example , if patients were sent to biopsy as a result of clinical findings .

In general , this method would also be suitable for experiments where multiple replicates of protein sample and LC / MS injection are available .

In order to offset the bias of the censored survival time , we employ a nonparametric method to impute the censored survival time .

The PS00008 myristoylation signature provided by PROSITE [ 19 ] was the first publicly available prediction algorithm .

The intuition behind this method is that if a TF is related to the survival outcome of a patient given a certain disease , then the genes that are regulated by this TF will be more differentially expressed between the patients that survive or die .

The most often encountered approach is the two-limit Tobit technique , which has been adopted as the natural choice for modelling DEA scores in second stage evaluations .

We present a method for the global analysis of the function of genes in budding yeast based on hierarchical clustering of the quantitative sensitivity profiles of the 4756 strains with individual homozygous deletion of nonessential genes to a broad range of cytotoxic or cytostatic agents .

We refer to this as the ratio method .

Simmons and Ochoterena have proposed a fourth method for coding indels [ 16 ] .

A recent novel approach for knowledge-based clustering [ 29 ] involves the use of selectively snipping the edges of a typical hierarchical clustering tree to induce clusters that are maximally consistent with available background information such as functional annotations .

Our approach applies an expectation-maximization algorithm to a model derived from a novel classification of SNP array probes .

The implementation of McGill University 's clerkship in Geriatric Medicine [ 6 ] included a new method of evaluation to stimulate self-reflection in clerks as well as student-tutor interaction .

To apply these methods it is necessary to know the prevalence of smoking in the study population , the total number of deaths due to diseases causally related to tobacco use , and a measure that summarizes the increased risk of dying due to these causes among smokers and ex-smokers .

The first method finds the best matching peptide from a sequence database using a scoring function based on the likelihood that an identified peptide is actually the peptide of the spectrum [ 1 , 2 ] .

The Sum-Height ( SH ) greedy method , denoted by SH , selects a character that will result in the largest increase in the sum-height .

With this method we underestimate the heterogeneity of viral spread as compared to Brownian motion .

The method to analyze all ConsWH or CombWH in any window sizes are called exhaustive window haplotype analysis .

The advantage of such an approach is that it allows the detection of conserved regulatory modules in highly divergent sequences , as we have demonstrated both with simulated sequences as well as with real world examples .

The method is feasible for use in high-throughput systems due to an automated injection .

In summary , the presented protocol allows fast detection of recombinants with an easy technique by minimizing the amount of necessary steps for generating a recombinant adenovirus .

Here , we describe a method to reveal the ability of evolutionary models to account for the compositional heterogeneity in a sequence alignment , which we measure using the median of all Bowker 's pairwise statistics , or the number of significant Bowker 's pairwise tests ( in the following , we note the measure of compositional heterogeneity h ) .

In order to assess the importance of different methods for total weight calculation , we implemented a version of the SAM " bits saved " method in the HMMER code .

After this , we estimated the isotopic peak profile for a peptide of the same mass using the method of averagines [ 61 ] .

Sample size calculation was carried out for our primary outcome ( accuracy of the AARR in screening for PA ) according to the previously published method by Jones et al [ 28 ] .

The fidelity of the amplification methods was determined using the ??Ct relative quantification method for qPCR .

To combine these diverse sources they adopt the so-called random forest technique , which uses a set of decision trees with random subsets of attributes .

The analysis of sole carbon and nitrogen source utilization was conducted with Phenotype MicroArrays™ ( Biolog , Hayward , Calif. ) .

In this article , we present a method that extracts biological named entities directly from full length articles .

In this study we present an in silico analysis method to determine pooling of variables in complex dynamic models of biochemical reaction networks .

Here we describe an assay for the detection of the HHV-6B B6 mRNA , but our approach can easily be extended to involve other mRNAs .

In the case of evolutionary agent based models , a certain number of agents ' characteristics are encoded in free parameters ( an artificial genome ) and optimized using techniques of evolutionary computation , such as genetic algorithms [ 26 ] .

The method of interpretation used was inspired by the French philosopher Paul Ricoeur 's phenomenological hermeneutics [ 26 ] , and developed at the University of Tromsø ( Norway ) and Umeå University ( Sweden ) and has previously been used by Lindseth et al. , [ 27 ] Udén et al. , [ 1 , 28 ] Søderberg and Norberg. , [ 29 ] Sørlie et al. , [ 18 , 30-33 ] and Nordam et al. [ 34 ] .

The method of interpretation used was inspired by the French philosopher Paul Ricoeur 's phenomenological hermeneutics [ 35 ] , and developed at the University of Tromsø ( Norway ) and Umeå University ( Sweden ) and has previously been used by Lindseth et al. , [ 36 ] Udén et al. , [ 1 , 13 ] Søderberg et al. , [ 37 ] and Sørlie et al. [ 30 , 32 , 38 ] .

Hierarchical linear models ( HLM ) are a multilevel approach that characterizes individuals and animals as nested within groups ( e.g. according to sex , racial background , or occupation ) as a means of investigating the interaction between individual-level and group-level variables [ 46 ] .

The analysis elucidates a temporal hierarchy of events that range from chemical equilibration events to the formation of physiologically meaningful pools , culminating in a network-scale ( dynamic ) structure- ( physiological ) function relationship .

A further approach has been taken using partial correlations that deconvolute contributions by additional parameters in order to reduce the list of correlations to basic dependencies [ 21 ] which may present a link from correlation to causality [ 22 , 23 ] .

Hallikas et al. [ 23 ] propose the EEL algorithm for finding alignments of significant motif occurrences instead of the sequences themselves .

Since we have proposed a new approximate inference algorithm , it is important to identify when this method works better than other approximate inference methods .

It is clear that HWPM method works only if the initial low resolution model of the particle is already known .

The key to the success of this method is a very high diversity V-gene repertoire template that was obtained from 140 non-immunized donors in combination with optimized primer set and cloning technique .

Within a clinical trial setting , the DNA-cards method was very well accepted by investigators and patients ( in perception of investigators ) , and was preferred to conventional methods due to its ease of use and safety .

We used a modified gene set enrichment analysis [ 14 , 15 ] , which measures the cumulative effect of small but consistent changes in expression levels of genes within a gene set .

Here we describe a novel PCR method that combined hemi-nested PCR ( a single internal primer ) with touchdown PCR for primer-template mismatches .

The QALY approach attempts to account for the quality of life lost by adjusting for time " lost " from disease or death .

Initial miRNA expression studies were performed by means of Northern blot analysis [ 7 ] .

One way to improve the efficiency of the identification process is to first use theoretical algorithms to predict which peptides are more likely to be epitopes and then experimentally screen this much smaller , selected list of peptides .

We performed trend analyses on the response and explanatory variables using the seasonal Mann-Kendall method [ 48 ] .

In this study we propose a predictive method primarily based on sequence and phylogenic information with the aim to apply it to the entire human genome .

As the most likely number of clusters present in a dataset is not necessarily indicated by the highest lnP ( D ) ( see STRUCTURE manual for additional details ) we applied the method of Evanno et al. [ 68 ] to approach the most likely number of clusters K .

A second method we used was to look for common regulatory elements was oligonucleotide analysis which has been used in yeast to identify regulatory sites [ 36 ] .

Let 's examine three representative Goose methods ( again , see the supplement for a fully documented simple goose ) .

2. The strips sampling ( sm ) is the most suitable sampling method for the effective reduction of the sequence set when more than 100 sequences are detected by BlastP searches .

In the absence of head-to-head evaluations , we conducted indirect comparisons of the interventions versus similar comparators across similar patient groups using methods described by Bucher et al [ 12 ] .

However , in the absence of head-to-head trials of varenicline versus NRT , we conducted indirect comparisons of these interventions versus placebo using methods described by Bucher et al and conducted z-tests to confirm [ 28 ] .

Applied to gene name data it provided a useful analysis of name variation of related genes within and between species .

Liang et al. [ 5 ] developed a multipoint linkage mapping approach for estimating the location of a trait locus using affected sibling pairs .

Instead of using the most probable sequence alignments the method utilizes the a posteriori probabilities for nucleotide alignments in order to establish the alignment constraints .

Interaction suppression is one of the few techniques available to evaluate the biological significance of an interaction between two proteins .

We therefore developed an automatic method for the spatial normalization of array-CGH data .

Comparisons between glucose measurements ( RN PCx and PG , LAB PCx and PG , and RN PCx and LAB PCx ) were done using the Passing-Bablok regression method [ 11 ] .

BASE was the method used in this study to infer the relationship between TFs and the survival probability of patients with different cancer types .

As all proteases described so far are cysteine proteases and nearly all proteolytic activity of cell extracts can be inhibited by cysteine protease specific inhibitors we chose a straightforward one-step purification approach described by Greenbaum et al .

The SVM-RFE is a quite popular method of feature selection in an iterative manner .

In Hajibabaei et al. [ 7 ] , we pioneered a new visually-appealing technique for drawing organic-looking phylogenetic trees .

In summary , the method described here may represent an alternative approach to identify tumour-affected cervical regions in patients with metastasized MTC .

On the one hand , the hypotheses that emerge from this synthesis draw on a broader body of views than any single study ( as in a meta-analysis ) and may therefore increase reliability ; on the other , we risk making strong conclusions based on a group of studies none of which is in itself reliable on the grounds of quality or diversity of context .

Fortunately , an effective method for predicting LFP therapy effectiveness for gastrointestinal cancers by detecting p53 has been reported [ 16-18 ] .

Instead we compared two different therapeutic approaches , one with a prevalent effect at the peripheral and the other at the central level .

The functional enrichment analysis introduced here allows association between eQTLs and biological pathways , enabling the identification of both novel members and novel regulators of these pathways .

Our method of analysis employed the adjusted indirect comparisons meta-analysis method .

The individual-observation log odds ratios are themselves constructed from positionally defined Markov Models ( pMM 's ) , so what results is a pMM / SVM sensor method .

By simulation study , we confirmed that the proposed method can detect more reliable information from a combined data and it is more effective in small data sets derived from different experimental conditions .

Therefore , this approach yields malignant cell loaded DC in a rapid time-frame without extensive cell culture , exogenous factors or cell isolation and manipulation .

We have developed a method based on seed-dependent PrP fibril formation that shows promising results in differentiating a small number of BSE-positive serum samples from healthy controls .

Pyrosequencing offers a new approach to data acquisition , analysis and identification of known and unknown ( new ) alleles , in particular in heterozygous conditions .

According to their method , a TF is reported to be cell cycle regulator if the activity of the TF does not keep constant in the cell cycle and there exists at least one phase in the cell cycle where the TF is significantly up- or down-regulated .

We utilized a highly quantitative experimental approach to assess a gene 's involvement in mitochondrial organization and biogenesis .

Its purity and state of oxidation was confirmed by an oxidimetric titration using arsenite-cerate method [ 41 ] .

The present study uses a naïve approach , called " cumulative TA skew " [ 17-20 ] to seek the presence of foreign genetic elements in the genomes of the twelve currently completely sequenced S. pyogenes strains ( Table 1 ) .

An education method for law and ethics in which a small group of intern doctors and teachers of ethics ( who can play an important role in modeling the very nature of ethics ) [ 32 ] , maintain smooth communication and foster mutual understanding from the standpoints of doctors and patients , corresponds to the traditional custom of Asian countries including Japan , where ethical sensitivity is established in families and communities .

For example , one approach to reduce non-participation bias is to use information from a sample of nonparticipants in the statistical adjustment of results for the participants [ 28 ] .

The four electrode technique used in this study is considered the standard in biophysical sciences and is widely employed to measure electrical conductance / impedance of biological tissue [ 28-37 ] .

The deterministic record linkage approach generates links on the basis of a full agreement of a unique identifier or a set of common identifiers .

A , B ) Formation of COs and NCOs were assayed by the approach of Storlazzi et al. [ 98 ] .

Their Bayesian approach to parameter estimation led to convergence problems in our data , and therefore we used an alternative procedure within the empirical-Bayes framework to tackle this problem : the EM estimation algorithm [ 26 ] in the presence of incomplete data .

Plausible and cautious extrapolation of the trends seen in a recent large and rigorous population-based study of HIV in a south Indian district suggests that India is likely grossly overestimating its HIV burden with the current official sentinel surveillance based method .

In these datasets a method to measure PSA recurrence is needed for the subsequent analysis of outcomes data and as such need to be applied in a uniform and reproducible manner .

The traditional method to select a set of marker genes is as follows : 1 ) rank the genes according to their significance in gene expression differences between diseased and normal samples using a statistical test ( e.g. t-test ) ; 2 ) use a classification method to evaluate the prediction error by using the top one gene , followed by the top two genes , the top three genes and so on until a pre-specified number of genes or a minimum prediction error is reached [ 1 , 2 ] .

The other method that can give atomic resolution structural information is NMR , a technique first demonstrated independently in 1946 by Felix Bloch ( 1905-1983 ) and Ed Purcell ( 1912-1997 ) .

First , we removed those on medication from the analysis ( annotated bp-med ) .

Additionally , a cut-off score of 6+ for the BSRS-5 was determined for psychiatric disorders using receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) analysis [ 10 ] , which is a method to measure the ability of an observer to identify a signal against a background of noise [ 11 ] .

A cluster analysis technique , which made use of the qualitative nature of the data ( presence / absence data ) , was used to cluster similar ( correlated ) items .

As a method of theory development , constructivist grounded theory provides components for the systematic synthesis of social processes and for deriving theories through inductive analysis of empirical data collected in natural settings [ 24 ] .

In multivariate analysis , CTC levels were the strongest predictor of poor outcome .

For the analysis of the European study a novel approach was adopted in which items shown to be valued differently in different countries were treated as individual items .

These results give an idea of the " normal " working method of the GP .

As an initial statistical analysis , we used Affymetrix software to define genes that showed expression changes ( Increased , Decreased or Marginal ) in expression levels between pairs of profiles ( difference analyses ) .

Defining medical informatics literature as articles assigned " Medical Informatics " MeSH ( Major Topic ) headings by National Library of Medicine indexers may result in a more comprehensive analysis and more practical results for researchers .

At least 1-2 days before analysis , groundwater and river samples stored in acid-leached scintillation vials were acidified to 1 % HCl ( Optima , Fisher Scientific ) to ensure re-dissolution of Fe oxhydroxides that might have precipitated .

As there are no other diagnostic tools to identify ADL episodes , the present method of symptomatic diagnosis was used .

By this approach , in vivo labeling circumvents the aforementioned technical issues while effectively identifying functional tumor vessels that are accessible if a drug was given via the vascular route .

Current expression methods for DI use baculovirus containing a cloned cDNA sequence of the DI gene to infect Spodoptera frigiperda insect cells [ 14 ] .

Model fitting is based on the EM algorithm , and iterative proportional fitting , with parameter starting values defined via a random number seed .

The acceptor photobleaching fluorescence resonance energy transfer ( FRET ) method is widely used for monitoring molecular interactions in cells .

In this regard it was necessary to break rank with typical approaches to designing disease- and symptom-specific HRQL instrumentation , since they are based on the premise that measures depend on a careful specification of disease-specific contexts and experiences .

Filter paper specimens were batched and refrigerated until transport to the Baylor Institute of Metabolic Disease where they were analyzed for tHcy by a method utilizing high performance liquid chromatography ( HPLC ) coupled to electrochemical ( Coulometric ) detection .

For this purpose , we applied an algorithm that identified all TF combinations regulating common targets and assigned p-values of significance to these overlaps [ 26 ] .

The details of the resulting algorithm are outlined in Section 4.1 .

For pathways with significant numbers of matches ( see [ 36 ] for a detailed description of this algorithm ) , PathoLogic imports the pathway and its associated reactions and substrates from MetaCyc into the new PGDB .

In order to remove any variability introduced through the use of different multiple comparisons corrections , the False Discovery Rate ( FDR ) controlling method of Benjamini and Yekutieli [ 21 ] was used to provide control of Type I errors when testing for changes in multiple gene sets .

Historically , the Halstedian method of " see one , do one and teach one " has been the method of choice for teaching surgery residents how to perform procedures .

It uses models of skin and towel color combined with a Bayesian sequential estimation technique .

The present report describes a new method for table grape ( Vitis vinifera ) genetic transformation .

Focus group discussion is the dominant technique of collecting qualitative data [ 22 ] .

We also analyzed the combined Ourisia AFLP dataset using PCO-MC , a recently published method [ 65 ] which couples principal coordinate analysis ( PCO ) with a clustering procedure to determine significant population structure .

One of the approaches commonly used to identify regulatory polymorphisms is to look for statistical associations between variation in gene expression and individual genotypes [ 9 ] , [ 10 ] .

The present study proposes a new method for the prediction of catalytic sites in proteins based on their residue-residue contact networks .

The comparisons were analyzed for differential gene expression using the RankProducts method [ 11 ] , implemented as a Bioconductor package [ 43 ] .

To do so , we defined differential gene expression using the RankProducts method [ 11 ] .

We have developed a new Monte Carlo based method to predict the mapping between two interacting protein families .

We have implemented a sib-comparison design to examine the effects of migration by using a counter-factual approach of comparing the health outcomes of migrating people with their non-migrating sibs who remain resident in the place of origin of both .

The haplotype resolution employs a phasing method that uses imperfect phylogeny .

Heritability estimates and evidence for linkage were obtained using the variance components approach implemented in SOLAR version 2.1.2 [ 7 ] .

Genetic structure was highlighted by the model-based method developed by Pritchard et al. , ( 2000 ) for human genetics .

A prediction method ProLoc-GO based on GOmining was implemented using the feature set of informative GO terms .

The lookahead scoring technique is also employed in the suffix tree based method of [ 13 ] .

Raw probe intensities (.cel files ) from each oligonucleotide array were processed by the RMA algorithm [ 51 ] , implemented by RMAExpress [ 52 ] .

Boden 's method captures flexibility in all three flexible regions , but it also predicts over 50 % of this sequence as flexible .

For the analysis of military clinical surveillance data ( SEA ) , a weekly statistical non automated analysis is performed by IMTSSA in Marseilles , using the Current Past Experienced Graph [ 9 ] ( CPEG ) .

Another approach has been to fit trial-by-trial RT data to the ex-Gaussian distribution , which provides parameters that may be related to more theoretically based distributions , such as the Wald [ 32 ] .

In literature of microarray processing , a = 0.01 is often used as the genome wide significant level , so the gene-specific significance level is : a* = a / ( 2n ) Recently a new modification of the MMM algorithm , Mod2MMM hereafter , was introduced [ 6 ] .

An alternative method for predicting protein function is the Phylogenetic profile method , also known as the Co-Conservation method , which rests on the premise that functionally related proteins are gained or lost together over the course of evolution [ 4 ] .

To evaluate the method , seven peptides ( peptides # 1 , # 2 , # 3 , # 9 , # 10 , # 11 , and # 12 ) were predicted from the amino acid sequence of TPO and IA-2 by using the standard algorithm BEPITOPE [ 11 ] .

We have developed a method to identify interacting TFs based on patterns of co-occurrence of pairs of DNA binding sites [ 3 ] .

To identify interactions between P. falciparum and human proteins , a modified yeast two-hybrid approach was applied as described previously [ 12 ] .

To classify our sequences into families , we used a nucleotide sequence identity matrix built using pairwise deletion method ( see Additional file 1 ) .

For example , Ihmels et al. [ 11 ] have applied a heuristic algorithm to the analysis of yeast gene-expression data to identify overlapping sets of genes whose expression is similar to known gene-expression patterns .

The 95 % -5 % cross-validation method ( Figure 3 ) requires more than 5000 train-test runs to reduce the variance of these estimates .

The 95 % -5 % cross-validation method ( Figure 7 ) requires more than 5000 train-test runs to achieve the same .

We designed a multiplex short-read DNA sequencing method to perform efficient ChIP-Seq in yeast and other small genome model organisms .

In addition , this method allows the monitoring of overall Ig change pre- and post-vaccination .

We developed Nearest Neighbor Networks ( NNN ) , a graph-based algorithm to generate clusters of genes with similar expression profiles .

We adapted this approach in the present study with blinded scoring of tissue samples by three different investigators .

A new regression-based method of linkage analysis that works on arbitrary pedigrees has recently been published [ 2 ] and implemented in the publicly available MERLIN software package [ 3 ] .

That led us to develop the staggered reannealing method [ 3 , 4 ] .

In [ 13 ] , a multi-resolution wavelet analysis of SEP was proposed and it decomposed the signals into a series of coarse and detailed t-f components with the help of scaling and wavelet functions .

Our method , called BioPNG , encodes Affymetrix probe data as indicated in Figure 5 ( A ) .

ASAP method may be the only practical approach to obtain chloroplast DNA sequence from rare or small plant samples .

The kernel machine method , with the support vector machine ( SVM ) as a most popular example , has emerged in the last decade as a powerful machine learning technique in high-dimensional settings [ 7 , 8 ] .

The technique uses a probabilistic ensemble approach to group the measured multivariate features into a set of consensus clusters .

We used a previously described match-merge method [ 16 ] within SAS statistical software to merge the data sets on the basis of non-unique identifiers available in both datasets ( infant 's date of birth , date of hospitalization , maternal county of residence , maternal month and year of birth , and maternal country of birth ) .

MEME is a motif-based method which detects conserved patterns or motifs among a set of sequences [ 26 ] .

The method appears to be resilient against the presence of false positive interactions .

Another approach using logistic regression estimates was suggested by Bruzzi et al [ 14 ] .

The technique utilized the umbilicus as an anchor .

In this paper , we developed a logistic kernel machine regression model for binary outcomes , where the covariate effects are modeled parametrically and the genetic pathway effect is modeled nonparametrically using the kernel machine method .

Absolute data analysis was performed using the Affymetrix Microarray Suite 5.0 software .

We analyzed trends in the proportion of home deaths by region , age , and causes of deaths using Joinpoint regression analysis .

Recent publications have analyzed the PMR of multiple births by alternative fetuses with a risk approach [ 18 , 19 ] , where twin births had consistently higher mortality rates than singletons at all gestational ages .

We have developed and validated a method for genomic survey sequencing ; a high-coverage , short-read genome survey using 454 pyrosequencing .

The automated image analysis and classification presented in this study demonstrate the feasibility of developing clinically relevant classification of histology images based on micro- texture .

The two distance measures are converted to zscores based on the permutation method described in [ 43 ] .

We developed a novel approach for quantitative analysis of CpG methylation density on the basis of microarray-based hybridization and incorporation of Cy5-dCTP into the Cy3 labeled target DNAs by using Taq DNA Polymerase on microarray .

The Greylevel Cooccurrence Matrix method ( COM ) is one of the most promising methods used in Texture Analysis of Magnetic Resonance Images .

In order to obtain adipose tissue venous blood , a 10 cm 22-gauge catheter ( Central venous catheter kit Seldinger technique ; Becton Dickinson , Alphen aan den Rijn , the Netherlands ) was introduced anterogradely over a guide wire into one of the superficial veins and threaded towards the groin , so that its tip lay just superior to the inguinal ligament [ 15 ] .

Recently Ishwaran and Rao [ 12 ] , building upon work in [ 10 ] , introduced a method for detecting differentially expressing genes between multiple groups termed Bayesian ANOVA for microarrays ( BAM ) .

One of these quantitative methods is the insertion torque described by Johansson and Strid [ 12 ] .

In addition to the above mentioned two methods , an intelligent adaptive binning method was also implemented in Automics [ 29 ] .

HEA is a safe technique with a low complication - and mortality rate , even in patients with left ventricular dysfunction [ 6-8 ] .

To find the mean , the CFEs for the six plates in each box were averaged following standard and previously published methods [ 13 , 14 ] .

Treatment GroupControl GroupTreatment Effect SizeControl Effect SizeComparison Effect SizeR2Effect Size f2Sample SizeVickersBadger1.020.001.020.210.2740VickersSMLGC-W.AVG0.800.160.640.090.10101Vickers90 % C-W.AVG0.620.160.460.050.05187A-W.AVGC-W.AVG0.560.160.400.040.04235Vickers90 % Carpenter0.620.370.250.020.02476A-W.AVGCarpenter0.560.370.190.010.01957A final method we employ is to compare the two weighted averages .

Dates were also estimated using a parametric Bayesian approach [ 34 ] in the program multidivtime .

In summary , in this work we present a genome-wide method for the identification of sequences that replicate early in the S phase .

We conclude that the new approach is effective and useful in assessing the quality of tandem mass spectrum by analysing the self-convolution result of the spectra .

One such method , GeneRank [ 19 ] , uses the same principles as Google 's PageRank algorithm [ 20 ] to rank differentially expressed genes based on gene expression data and prior biological knowledge .

The evolutionary trace ( ET ) analysis is developed by Olivier Lichtarge in 1996 [ 6 ] .

Serial analysis of gene expression ( SAGE ) is a widely used technology for determining gene expression profiles of tissues and cell lines under different extracellular stimuli or under different phenotypic changes derived from genetic mutations ( 1 , 2 ) .

Leaves from plants in the late rosette stage were extracted with the Ariel method for DNA extraction for quantitative PCR and cloning of chromosomal sequences .

We have used a new integrative approach that allows to incorporate AS detection into ab initio gene prediction .

Note that we decided against the approach of Pagel [ 63 ] , as implemented in the program CAIC [ 64 ] , to take account of phylogenetic uncertainty .

The combination having the highest sum was selected for further analysis .

Such an approach is suited for permanently well-mixed systems such as the Belgian coastal zone ( BCZ ) , as knowledge of the mixed layer depth is not required .

For a quantitative assessment of metabolic fluxes , Palsson and co-workers have developed a theoretical approach commonly referred to as flux balance analysis ( FBA ) [ 3 ] .

Although the computation of the powers by CGSA is different from the autoregressive technique used in the above research , we have also included PLO / PTOT , as determined by CGSA , in our analyses .

Our approach sets a threshold for the fraction of arrays called Present in at least one treatment group .

The evolutionary relationships among a-proteobacteria were also examined using the character compatibility approach [ 27 ] .

Most analyses in this paper used the background adjusted ( see above ) , log2 transformed data from replicate beads on a given array and summarised these values using Illumina 's default method .

Positive selection cells ( 106 ) were taken and incubated with FITC-labeled anti-CD4 antibody ( Biosource Inc , CA ) to determine positive yield by FACS analysis .

In this article we present a computational method for automated annotation of Drosophila gene expression pattern images .

We use the approximate normal modes calculation method developed by Hinsen [ 10 ] and implemented in the MMTK package [ 27 ] .

We use the approximate normal modes calculation method developed by Hinsen [ 26 ] and implemented in the MMTK package [ 21 ] .

Then , after adjusting the US-based analysis 's detailed estimate of facilities costs for inflation , we used the five multipliers to estimate facilities costs in each of the five countries [ 31 ] .

First , we used the method of Pagel et al [ 52,108 ] which quantifies the proportional contribution of punctuated ( ß ) and gradual ( g ) evolution to path lengths in a phylogeny , based on extent of association between sequence change and cladogenesis events .

Recently , Stenqvist and colleagues [ 8 ] introduced a novel method to measure EELV without interruption of mechanical ventilation , based on a simplified and modified nitrogen multiple breath washout ( NMBW ) technique , which is integrated into a mechanical ventilator .

A new analysis program , BLKPROB , computes E-values for multiple block hits using methods developed for searches of block queries against sequence databases with the MAST searching tool ( 15 , 16 ) .

The CCV method , although not requiring a process of defining orthologs , considers every possible string of length up to k for whole genome sequences .

Another approach , which is robust to HWE assumptions , is to estimate the HET rate ( and its variance ) directly by population allele frequencies [ 16 ] .

Another method that can be viewed as an approximation to full Bayesian analysis is Discriminant Analysis invented by Sir Ronald A. Fisher [ 9 ] .

Kokotovic et al. , were the first to describe a typing method for M. genitalium , which is based on whole-genome fingerprinting involving selective amplification of restriction fragments [ 22 ] .

We describe here a novel approach to assessing potential risks of new introductions for biological control , using probabilistic-risk assessment methods .

We utilized the unsupervised clustering algorithm implemented in STRUCTURE [ 12 , 13 ] to group individuals into genetic clusters in such a way that each individual is given an estimated membership coefficient for each cluster , corresponding to the fraction of his or her genome inferred to have ancestry in the cluster .

Therefore , we developed a method to date LTR retrotransposon fragments based on sequence identity between truncated fragments and a complete copy that comes for the same amplification burst .

We used the 2-??CT method for relative quantification ( RQ ) of gene expression [ 36 ] , a comparative technique in which a target gene is normalized to an endogenous control and relative to a calibrator sample .

Numbers of oncogenic alterations ( genetic mutations or epigenetic alterations ) required for transformation were estimated from ages at cancer using a Bayesian approach as previously described [ 11 ] .

Currently , QuikChange site-directed mutagenesis is the method of choice .

We present a simple , rapid and highly efficient method for transgene insertion into the chromosome of Escherichia coli , Salmonella or Shigella at a benign chromosomal site using the site-specific recombination machinery of the transposon Tn7 .

Some studies using a unique technique called " real time fMRI " ( rtfMRI ) have been recently reported [ 9-12 ] .

A qualitative approach was used as an important and essential first step in understanding the participants ' insiders ' view and their perceptions .

The same approach was repeated for reaction B with respect to reaction A .

The normalized and filtered data sets were clustered via hierarchical clustering with the complete agglomeration method and Euclidean distance metric [ 126 ] .

Background correction can be performed via the normexp-method .

The anchor-based approach we used estimates the change score at which the questionnaires discriminate best between improved and stable patients .

The model-fitting procedure derived from the results of the simulation study ( Sections 2.3.3-2.3.6 ) provides a fast and reliable approach to parameter estimation .

Although the number of such incomplete sets due to either scenario should be small , we use an approach of Huberman and Langholz [ 51 ] to accommodate both problems .

The method of Gutteridge et al. [ 51 ] is based on sequence conservation and structural features and predicts active sites with a high success rate .

a statistical term weighting approach .

The ARDRA method demonstrated to be useful for intraspecific analysis .

Recently , Ashkenazy and Kantelhardt and coworkers [ 34 , 35 ] investigated binary coded variations of heart rate , which were called sign series of heart rate increments , by means of detrended fluctuation analysis ( DFA ) .

It is likely these additional positive samples are false positives as the trial using artificially infected mosquitoes indicated a lower sensitivity of detection than the nested approach .

A related method that performs pairwise network alignment between species is the PathBLAST method [ 34-36 ] , which offers a general solution to the problem of PIN comparison .

The next worst performing method on the measurement level was kNN .

Here , we present a novel approach based on support vector machines to predict the binding of peptides to MHC class I molecules , SVMHC .

Here , we present a novel approach , SVMHC , based on support vector machines to predict the binding of peptides to MHC class I molecules .

The PCA-maSigFun analysis of these data revealed , as expected , the more detailed picture of the functional aspects of auxin treatment .

As an alternative approach to recovering gene cassettes , the cassette PCR technique has been developed [ 20 ] .

Spectral referencing , which sets the inner reference peak ( DSS / TSP ) of each spectrum to 0 ppm , can be regarded as a simple global method for peak alignment .

The first method we used for predicting local recurrence is PAM ( prediction analysis for microarrays ) : class prediction as described by Tibshirani and colleagues [ 31 ] .

A different approach , which is used in this study , is to investigate the different developmental programs in the two cell types by characterizing the abundance of novel or previously known mRNAs separately for each cell-type by real-time RT-PCR studies .

During a fold simulation , we need a scoring method to evaluate the quality of newly simulated conformations relative to those already generated .

We are proposing to use a simple computer program based on multivariate analysis to calculate the probability of the event of surgical morbidity or mortality .

To better understand how ERa regulates transcription of estrogen-responsive genes , we developed a novel method to isolate proteins associated with the DNA-bound receptor , which utilizes full-length ERa and endogenously-expressed nuclear proteins and takes into account DNA- and ligand-induced changes in receptor conformation .

The rule-based method described here can be used to infer genetic networks by combining data from microarrays , promoter sequences and known promoter binding sites .

The use of the bootstrap technique enabled us to provide both the 95 % CI of the thresholds and to compare them between different populations .

Using this technique we examined 10 100 cDNA mini-fragments from HeLa cells and constructed a gene expression profile consisting of 3665 genes .

An SVM-based approach has been proposed [ 25 ] that parses the mfe structure in " triplets " : structural information about the pairing states of every three nucleotides , represented using dot-bracket notation .

More recently , Rajapakse et al. [ 17 ] proposed a complex splice site detection method by combining mostly second order Markov models with backpropagation neural networks ( BPNN ) .

Fackler et al [ 26 ] recently reported a new method ( quantitative multiplex methylation-specific PCR ) that assesses for promoter hypermethylation of DNA in breast ductal epithelial cells , even in samples with as few as 50 cells .

The most frequently employed large-scale caspase-3 preparation method includes separate expression of the two insoluble domains in E. coli and subsequent refolding of the two combined domains for the active enzyme [ 21 ] .

Herein , we conducted a detailed study using a sliding-window approach .

Recently , Myers and Griffiths [ 7 ] introduced a new method based on combining recombination bounds of local regions ( local bounds ) to estimate a global composite bound of the sample .

In this paper we present a quantitative examination of the structural importance of amino acid positions in six superfamilies taken from the CATH database [ 13 ] using a modified version of a method originally developed for predicting functionally important residues [ 14 ] .

The trend and seasonality in these means were then extracted using the ' combined ' method described in Barnett and Dobson [ 13 ] .

For inferring intraspecific evolution , networks of haplotypes sampled from populations of R. solani AG-3 were built using the algorithm recommended by Posada & Crandall [ 26 ] .

According to Strauss and Corbin [ 22 ] , the grounded theory approach is used because little is known about autonomy and self-management of people with type 2 diabetes in a nurse-led , shared-care setting .

The most commonly used approach for pathway analysis , the enrichment or overrepresentation analysis , uses Fisher 's exact test .

Having obtained the dissimilarity indexes , Ward 's clustering , a hierarchically agglomerative clustering method , is used to decompose the network [ 38 ] .

To select a few features out of hundreds , we apply a simple greedy selection method as follows : a forward stepwise selection as described in [ 37 ] ( section 3.4 ) was applied twenty times to the aa and seq feature set of dataset A ( mic ) .

The crystallization / immersion method was used to conduct a qualitative analysis using transcripts from the nine interviews .

In the last few years flux-balance analysis ( FBA ) has been the most successful and widely used technique for studying metabolism at system level .

They also used a parallel analysis [ 6 ] where the empirically derived eigenvalues were compared with randomly generated ones .

The study analysis , based in grounded theory , was an exhaustive process that maximized the data obtained from the session .

In this study we proposed a new technique for concurrently mining labeled and unlabeled datasets .

The intent of this study was to explore a practical approximation for implementing a Bayesian approach for nursing outcome report cards .

The tau-leaping algorithms are all based on the modified tau-leaping procedure proposed by Cao et al. [ 9 ] which avoids the problem of negative populations observed for the original tau-leaping procedure .

We present a novel method for the analysis of microarray data that identifies joint differential expression in gene-pathway pairs .

To determine the precise tissue focus for LIN-35 and SLR-2 , we carried out a mosaic analysis [ 44 ] - [ 47 ] .

Statistical total correlation spectroscopy ( STOCSY ) analysis method has also been implemented in Automics .

To obtain experimental evidence that TM1 of Drosophila ORs inserts into the membrane with the N-terminus intracellular , we first used the ß-galactosidase ß-gal fusion technique .

[ 25 ] The Holt-Winters forecasting method was used to predict the mortality rate per 100,000 person-years during and after the SARS outbreak .

It changes functional annotation analysis from term- or gene-centric to biological module-centric .

The scoring process is derived from the aggregate scoring method [ 24 ] , following the common methodology used in the SC test [ 12 , 13 ] .

The toolbox currently implements a simple alignment method utilizing the master peak list .

The information derived from these analyses is also limited by the use of the summary ROC approach to pool studies .

We demonstrate in two different samples how this method can be applied .

A new approach for disrupting gene function is RNA interference ( RNAi ) .

We adopted the complete linkage method , where the distance between two clusters is computed as the distance between the two farthest objects in the two clusters .

Other methods that have been implemented are to adjust the lipid levels for medication by using medications as covariates in a linear regression model .

The gene expression levels are typically estimated by the Tukey 's biweight method .

The HSM method [ 2 ] iteratively divides the data set into samples of half the size as the original set and uses the half-sample with the minimum range , where range is defined as the difference between the maximum and the minimum value of the sample .

To test for the effect of race on gene expression , gene-by-gene analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) with three groups was used .

The Gu method uses a maximum-likelihood procedure to test whether there has been a significant change in the rate of evolution after gene duplication leading to the two paralogs .

Here we propose an extension of our polynomial-based method to cluster short expression profiles measured in different conditions .

The first method calculates the principal moment of the helix residues and used the eigenvector corresponding to the largest eigenvalue as the helix axis .

The plot ( Figure 2a ) demonstrates that the global size change is minimal after image 20 and the subtler differences in shape are not picked up by this method .

However , this method is only capable of determining the rate between two subtypes where a third , more distantly related , subtype functions as an outgroup .

The Fisher kernel [ 11 ] was the first method that used support vector machines .

Several earlier studies have employed multivariate techniques such as factor analysis ( FA ) to investigate MetS .

To interpret such gene expression changes , gene set enrichment analysis [ 18 ] has been proposed .

We propose a quadratic regression method for identification of differentially expressed genes and classification of genes based on their temporal expression profiles for non-cyclic short time-course microarray data .

In this gene retrieval method , a query gene vector is one of column vectors of A .

In order to adjust for this lack of independence , a permutation method was used to identify a correction factor that adjusts the naïve df for the calculated p-value to a lower value ( and subsequently higher p-value ) at the point where the percentage of differentially expressed genes is equal to the selected alpha level ( i.e. 5 % differentially expressed genes found at p < 0.05 ) based on random data .

Solutions of the primary model consistent with experimental data were obtained by using a technique developed for fitting noisy , poorly sampled time series ( Locke et al , 2005 ) .

Stepwise ( forward step likelihood ratio method ) Cox proportional hazards analysis was used to assess the association between baseline factors and HIVAN , independent of other factors .

Response rate was calculated in accordance with the method described in the GAIT study [ 11 ] .

Redelings and Suchard ( 2005 ) describe a statistical method of incorporating indel information into phylogeny estimation .

A well-established method is a phage display [ 13 , 14 ] .

For the meta-analysis , summary estimates and 95 % CIs were calculated based on the method of DerSimonian and Laird [ 2 ] .

Publication bias was assessed according to the method introduced by Deeks [ 31 ] .

The IUPred method uses a probabilistic score ranging between 0 ( complete order ) and 1 ( total disorder ) , which is based on an energy value calculated using a pairwise energy profile along the sequence .

Here we present ARACNE , a novel algorithm , using microarray expression profiles , specifically designed to scale up to the complexity of regulatory networks in mammalian cells , yet general enough to address a wider range of network deconvolution problems .

Such missing values often complicate further statistical analyses , and for this reason we developed a secondary peak picking method for filling these gaps .

The " human capital " method was used to compute the indirect costs .

An expectation-maximization ( EM ) approach is used to iteratively improve the imputed MVs and expression covariance matrix until total change in the matrix falls below a prescribed threshold ( here taken to be 0.01 ) [ 1 ] .

The Prionics-Check Western blot method for active monitoring of BSE in cattle was used [ 57 ] for routine scrapie diagnosis on brain stem at the obex region .

In recent work [ 24 ] we proposed an automated method to perform alphabet reduction .

Our methodology is based on the edge-betweenness clustering algorithm proposed by Newman and Girvan [ 20 , 21 ] , which has been previously applied to a wide variety of problems [ 22-25 ] .

In the present study a new method for the detection of protein active sites is introduced .

Among the many methods used to detect communities in graphs , the modularity optimization algorithm of Newman is one of the most efficient and accurate to date [ 46 ] .

It is against this background of low levels of restorative treatment provision in Primary Care , and uncertainty as to the effectiveness of that treatment even if it is provided , that a novel , simplified method of using PMCs , the Hall Technique , has been investigated .

Recently , a simpler method to determine the significance level for SNP association studies has been proposed that relies on the linkage disequilibrium ( LD ) structure of the genome to determine the number of independent tests [ 1 ] .

Compared to traditional methodologies , this procedure is far more successful at acquiring a narrow range ( 45-75 µm ) of pyrite particles , as reflected in batch dissolution experiments and SEM analysis .

In another class of gene-expression based approach is gene-trap .

These are obtained using a model-based likelihood method devised for reconstructing ancestral sequences , and implemented in PAML [ 24 ] , for our test case .

The other 3 methods can be constrained ( see Methods for details ) to prevent this .

Another method , which we refer to as the ' Lake ' method , uses Markov triple analysis ( MTA ) as a different approach to finding the P^U matrices for rooted triples of sequences [ 13 ] .

Since 1999 , the Misgav Ladach method for caesarean section is used [ 16 ] .

Our graph bigram method improves on this approach by accounting for all occurrences of the point mutation and protein terms throughout the length of the text instead of measuring one local relationship .

These appear as subsystems in analysis of multiscale networks of nonlinear biochemical reactions .

To determine the orientation and relative lengths of overlapping BAC clones in the walk , a PCR-based method was used .

We developed a deep sequencing and bioinformatics analysis protocol to investigate the molecular composition of a breast cancer poly ( A ) + transcriptome .

To overcome these limitations , we have developed a structure-based predictive technique that integrates the strength of Monte Carlo simulations and homology modeling [ 13-15 ] .

The most commonly used mechanism for RNA amplification is a T7 based linear amplification method first developed by Van Gelder , Eberwine and coworkers [ 19-21 ] .

We start by describing a method for the accurate estimation of statistical significance of single binding sites .

In this work , we present a novel method for construction of the reference state , which we have called Monte Carlo Reference State ( MCRS ) .

A simpler method for computing cumulative tobacco smoke damage has recently been introduced .

Other attempts at the problem use local search methods on complete conformations , including the GTabu algorithm [ 7 ] .

Identification of overrepresented DNA binding sites in genes of the same cluster is performed by the SCOPE method [ 12 ] .

We present a useful research algorithm for detecting delirium in an ICU setting .

We demonstrate the utility of this method by quantification of four genes , Xist , Sry and the two heat-inducible hsp70i ( hsp70.1 and hsp70.3 ) , as well as their RNA transcripts in single mouse embryos and in isolated blastomeres .

In 1976 , Arnold [ 14 ] introduced a technique based on 1H Nuclear Magnetic Resonance ( NMR ) spectroscopy .

In the present work we present an automated assay for the estimation of blood total antioxidant capacity ( TAC assay ) , based on the crocin bleaching ( oxidation ) method .

For the ' Closest Sense ' method ( CS ) , input was the UMLS semantic network and the article abstracts .

Using this approach electrical potentials on the epicardial surface are calculated from signals recorded on the patient 's skin .

The data collected by questionnaire survey were analysed mainly with simple descriptive statistics ; while the qualitative mode of analysis was mainly narrative .

While several other methods could be implemented , this approach was used because of its simplicity in examining existing data .

The second technique is , high-throughput mass spectrometric protein complex identification ( HMS-PCI ) protocol where a number of predicted interacting partner proteins are used as baits and associated proteins are identified .

Since only a small portion of the reaction is required , without any intermediate purification step , the time required for this analysis usually fits between typical ligation and transformation procedures .

Semi-quantitative determination of ER and PR was performed according to the method described by Allred et al. [ 43 ] .

Microarray results for selected genes were confirmed by real-time RT-PCR analysis .

Cohen 's kappa ( ? ) was calculated as described by NMKL to quantify the degree of agreement between the two methods [ 28 ] ( ? > 0.80 means very good agreement between the methods ) .

The effects of experimental variables on coat colour was also investigated using residual maximum-likelihood analysis ( REML [ 38 ] ) implemented within GenStat [ 39 ] .

According to this algorithm , clusters are built from the bottom up , first by merging individual items into clusters , and then by merging clusters into superclusters , until the final merge brings all items into a single cluster .

We used a recently developed method to estimate the DDME from nucleotide diversity data of two species ( C. elegans and C. remanei ) that exhibit strikingly different Ne [ 23 , 50 ] .

We also propose a modification of an existing method where the statistical framework determines whether a set of proteins shows an association with the predefined phenotypes of interest .

Here , we report a computational approach based on a novel machine learning technique , which enabled the identification of genome-wide TFBSs .

Under this approach , to which we refer as the EWCL approach ( for Ewens , Watterson , Cornuet , and Luikart ; see Materials and Methods ) , population size change can not be dated or quantified .

Total reduced glutathione ( GSH ) was estimated by the method of Moron et al. [ 21 ] .

We recently developed an informatics method [ 13 ] to provide an estimate for the orderliness of synonymous codon usage ( SCUO ) and the amount of synonymous codon usage bias .

The HPLC analysis condition is : a C18 RP guard column ( 250 × 4.6 mm × 5 µm , Agilent Zorbax Extend ) .

We have adopted a very common method that selects k to maximize the average silhouette ( described below ) .

' Framework ' content analysis , an analytical process involving a number of distinct yet highly interconnected stages [ 20 ] , was used to categorise themes for discussion .

Analysis of the interviews was undertaken using the framework approach outlined by Pope et al and Ritchie and Spencer [ 31 , 32 ] .

For statistical analysis , we used the Significance Analysis of Microarray ( SAM ) software package from Stanford University [ 21 ] .

Cascade methodology was used ( i.e. one person from each group becomes an educator and runs their own sessions ) .

According to the multiple pressure-volume curve technique discussed earlier , this ventilator is the first to directly assess PEEP-related recruitment by simply calculating the volume difference between the first point of the PEEP pressure-volume curve and the volume read on the zero end-expiratory pressure-volume curve at the corresponding pressure .

Intradermal needles are especially a very popular and safe technique .

Data and results can be exported to other formats including PSI-MI , Excel and DTA ( Sequest files ) for additional analysis using other tools .

In addition , de Lichtenberg et al. [ 62 ] once proposed an approach in which the timescales are first transformed from minutes to percentages of the cell cycle in different experiments in order to obtain one integrated global peak time .

The solution phase Chemical Cleavage of Mismatch ( CCM ) is one of few methods capable of detecting nearly all single base mismatches [ 1 ] .

Statistical analysis employing the RI between different samples or groups is straightforward , because it is simply a correlation coefficient , which is normally distributed and dimensionless [ 35 , 37 ] .

In microarray analysis the labelling of genomic DNA by random priming and the incorporation of nucleotides tagged with fluorophores is accomplished using the Klenow fragment of the DNA polymerase .

The method presented by Beckmann et al. [ 22 ] showcases the flexibility of Mantel statistics using haplotype sharing .

Household wealth was assessed by constructing an index using principal components analysis .

Motivated by these results , we developed a DPA-based algorithm that successfully predicts small-molecule binding sites at locations where interactions cause a large change in protein vibrations [ 38 ] .

Chou et al. [ 9 ] proposed the component-coupling algorithm that took into account the coupling effect among different amino acid components .

Therefore , this method is well suited for generating sequences that can be recognized by both HMMER and Match , without giving an unfair disadvantage to any of the two methods .

Here we present the Sparse Vector Autoregressive model to approach these problems .

The interactions among the four most potent extracts in the 22Rv1 prostate carcinoma cell line were then analyzed using isobolographic analysis .

Subtractive hybridization is an attractive method for enriching differentially expressed genes .

Longer mitochondrial ( 19-26 nucleotide ) gene encoding primers are likely to increase the reproducibility and specificity when compared to RAPD technique .

More than one virus was detected in one third of the patients , but only by using the RT-PCR technique .

An alternative method of collecting data from absent students was tested during the immediate post-intervention data collection sweep , whereby school staff were given absent students ' questionnaires and asked to arrange their completion and return ( by ' freepost ' ) .

Hedman et al. [ 16 ] included information about predicted transmembrane segments into the standard Smith-Waterman and profile-search algorithms for membrane proteins by adding an extra delta ( score ) when two residues that are both predicted to belong to transmembrane segments are aligned .

They developed a matrix decomposition method called network component analysis ( NCA ) to determine transcription regulator activity .

A comparative study published some years ago [ 11 , 17 ] indicated that the most accurate predictive method at that time is based on the prediction of turns .

We accounted for correlations within medical practices using the generalized estimation equation ( GEE ) method [ 19 ] .

Very recently , a fast analysis of all SNPs in a genome-wide association study was described using a method akin to a penalised likelihood approach [ 24 ] .

A second combinatorial control technique relies on temperature-dependent degradation of the mRNA of the target gene .

A faster model-fitting procedure can be devised by replacing the first phase of the Baum-Welch algorithm with a maximisation step .

The third method ( RANK ) calculates a relevance score as described below .

The method was constructed from two procedures : 1 ) a fluorescent labeling reaction of PCR fragments using fluorescence-adapted primers in a single tube , and 2 ) electrophoresis on a non-denaturing polyacrylamide gel .

The heat pain thresholds were assessed by the ascending ramp method with a continuous stimulus , which increased intensity at a constant rate .

The MMPF analysis implemented the Hilbert-Huang transformation [ 12 ] technique to measure the coupling between two nonstationary signals .

In our analysis , the authors automatically computed the number of structured abstracts in Group A by a method that uses regular expressions to look for section headings .

They used an iterative linear regression algorithm based on intensity data from several scans for correcting spot intensities both above and below the usable range .

First , the multivariate factor analysis was performed with the FACTANAL function , with the maximum likelihood estimate option and the " Varimax " rotation , in Splus version 6.2 of Insightful Corp. , Seattle , WA .

The methodology developed for use in analysing industrial accidents has been adapted for use in a healthcare setting , classifying ' error producing circumstances ' and ' organisational factors ' in a single broad framework of factors affecting clinical practice [ 16 ] .

Szabo et al [ 20 ] discuss conditions under which this method is a valid one for testing two-sample hypotheses with microarray data .

Combined with suppression PCR , selective amplification of differentially expressed cDNA sequences was achieved without the application of physical separation methods [ 7 ] .

The DNA cards method has been used to collect DNA samples in several clinical studies focusing on infective pathogens , such as malaria [ 5 , 10 ] , staphylococcus [ 11 ] , or HIV [ 12 ] , Gaucher disease [ 13 ] and cancer [ 4 , 14 ] .

The initial analysis of the data suggested a putative minor expansion in the CACNA1A gene ( case 1 ) by gel electrophoresis that was subsequently refuted by capillary electrophoresis .

Pybus et al. [ 14 ] presented the " skyline plot " method that uses a step-function to approximate the population history obtained from an estimated genealogy .

In particular , our analysis revealed the emergence of links between a core set of pathways in the cMyc dataset which may play an important role for the comprehension of the early phenotypical changes following cMyc activation .

Finally , a plenary session was held during which students had the opportunity of listing the positive and negative attributes that had emerged during their analysis , providing clarification where required , and discussing themes derived .

Recently an elegant method for introducing point mutations into the genome was devised by Resnick and colleagues that does not require cloning of the mutant allele [ 17 ] .

An alternative technique used for selecting high producer clones , which consists in direct labeling of cells with a fluorescent antibody ( without permeabilisation or fixation ) followed by flow cytometry analysis has been described [ 27 ] .

To prioritize the potential internal controls for Q-RT-PCR analyses and to study the possibility of general utilization of these potential internal controls , we first applied the block bootstrapping technique to rank genes with variance and IQR ( Fig. 1 ) .

Redundant probe sets representing the same tentative consensus ( TC ) sequences or Unigene were removed and the 2,947 genes with significant differential expression patterns of 2-fold or greater were grouped into 12 clusters by hierarchical clustering using the complete agglomeration method and Euclidean distance metric according to mRNA expression within each tissue in comparison with the other two ( Figure 1 ; Additional file 1 ) .

In the first approach , gene expression of CD11b+ cells from mice after sublethal pYV+ and sublethal ?yopH infection was compared .

For statistical analysis we used a Bayesian linear model [ 40 ] and the Holm multiple testing correction to adjust individual p-values .

A specific evaluation method adapted to military syndromic surveillance objectives and conditions of engagement in the field was developed .

RDAM is a method for identifying genes with changing expression levels using the user-determined FDR and/or S selection parameters .

The advent of molecular biology tools , especially the PCR multiplex technique , opens new avenues of research : this method enables easy determination of sex , stage and physiological status using only a fragment of a mosquito morphologically assigned to An. gambiae s.l. [ 14 ] .

The second method has the advantage of providing a more understandable scale .

In this report , we describe a new microarray-based method for estimating the allele frequency in pooled DNA samples based on the physical principles of DNAs immobilization and hybridization on solid surface .

A recent publication described a supervised classification method for microarray data : Between Group Analysis ( BGA ) .

Then , we included in our weighted average analysis the peak replication fraction and any other fraction that had > = to 50 % of the peak value .

Whenever there is homology between species , there is an opportunity for identification probes with detectable hybridization signal using probe level analysis described here .

We present an approach for characterizing mixed , highly degraded PCR templates such as those often encountered in ecological studies using non-invasive samples as a source of DNA , wildlife forensics investigations and ancient DNA research .

The famous Lempel-Ziv algorithm can efficiently extract the information on repeated patterns encoded in RNA secondary structures and makes our method an alternative to analyze the similarity of RNA secondary structures .

Our method of gene selection will not return sets of genes that are highly correlated , because they are redundant .

By the method we proposed , we could determine the robust stability under intrinsic fluctuations and identify the genes that are significantly affected by extrinsic noises , which we call the weak structure of the network .

In summary , we have developed a powerful new technique that allows the rapid , safe , and transient expression of single / multiple genes in NPCs cultured as monolayer , while simultaneously permitting the long-term tracking of the transfected cells and their progeny .

We have presented a method to test the significance of expression changes within a group of genes , while considering the correlation structure among genes in each group .

First , Manuscript Architect will be linked to literature maps , a method developed for structured literature reviews .

At the political level , critical incidents analysis is being used .

The spectral method is an indirect method which measures the magnitude of TA as the amplitude of spectral power at the 0.5 cycles per beat frequency and then subtracts the mean background noise .

In this study , Pyrosequencing was used to determine allele frequencies at each of the six SNPs in MSP-119 , and an algorithm was developed to reconstruct the frequency of MSP-119 haplotypes in mixed malaria infections .

The qPCR technique provides a quantitative measurement of DNA copy number and accurately characterizing chromosomal breakpoints .

A conservative adjustment method ( Bonferroni 's adjustment ) is to divide the experiment-wise Type I error level ( a ) by the number of hypotheses tested ( N = 22,283 ) and use that as the cut-off for significant p-values .

In this study , we proposed a scoring method ( Eq. 1 ) that combined the predicted variance information to compare two spectra under total ion current normalization .

The expectation-maximization ( EM ) algorithm developed by Excoffier and Slatkin uses maximum likelihood methods to determine the most probable haplotype assignment given the observed sample genotypes and the estimated population haplotype frequencies ( under the assumption of Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium ) .

( 3 ) Bisecting K Means ( BKM ) : The initial centroids are calculated using a variation of the Bisecting K Means algorithm [ 10 ] .

Two basic computational approaches were used to study the workings of such integrated models : ( i ) rFBA ( regulatory flux balance analysis ) —a method for simulating growth in batch cultures by predicting dynamic flux profiles ( i.e. , a series of steady-state flux distributions ) in a changing environment ( Covert et al , 2001 , 2004 ; Herrgard et al , 2006 ) .

Another approach is to search only transcribed sequences in the form of expressed sequence tags [ 7 , 8 ] .

For example , UniqueProt [ 8 ] is a fast and simple method that reduces the redundancy of the dataset by removing over-represented sequences , based on a user-defined percent identity threshold .

In the analysis , a continuous portion of an antigen is sequentially substituted into a different sequence .

The AAA activities , other than those associated with cholinesterases ( like those found in human liver , rat serum , pineal gland ) and amidases that utilise o-nitroacetanilide as substrate can be visualised by the method described above .

Accomplishing this transfer forms a foundation for quantitative approaches to intraoperative surgical planning and outcomes assessment in valvular reconstructive surgery .

Another issue with this method of identifying double recombinants is that if a single recombinant occurs in both siblings , and the recombinant occurs on one side of a given marker in the first sibling and on the other side of that marker in the second sibling , the two siblings could in fact share an additional allele IBD for only that single marker .

However , this approach requires the number of observations at each time of interest to be large for the Normal distribution-based assumptions upon which it is based to remain valid .

In the first stage , the SVM-RFE technique was most efficient and robust in the presence of low number of samples and high input space dimension .

To avoid training data sparseness and to structure the hypothesis space based on the entire protein distribution , we have proposed a prediction method that uses Joachims ' spectral graph transducer and is trained on both structure-known sequences and structure-unknown sequences .

We present a novel method of using commercial oligonucleotide expression microarrays for aCGH , enabling DNA copy number measurements and expression profiles to be combined using the same platform .

Results from the integration of Bayesian tests and other machine learning techniques with linkage disequilibrium data suggest that we do not need to use too stringent thresholds to reduce the number of false positive associations .

One widely used method is the LD50 assay , which is defined as the number of bacteria required to kill 50 % of the infected hosts .

